Ulinzi Stars top hitman Stephen Waruru bid his team and his fans goodbye in great style when he scored two goals as the soldiers gunned down Tusker 4-0 in their final SportPesa Premier League match at Afraha Stadium Nakuru on Saturday.  This was the last match for the diminutive 26-year- soldier who has hanged his boots to pursue other personal goals.  "It feels great to play my last match in a team that I loved and I thank my teammates and the entire technical bench for their massive support," said Waruru, who has completed the season with 13 goals to his credit, out of the 19 games he played for the soldiers in the league.  He said the two goals he scored against champions Gor Mahia will remain memorable in his career at Ulinzi Stars. Asked his next move Waruru was non-committal.  "For now my tour of duty at Ulinzi Stars is over and only God knows my next plan," said Waruru.  It was a sad ending for the ousted champions, who conceded the first goal at quarter hour mark, when Ulinzi Stars Daniel Waweru set up Waruru to stab home past goalkeeper David Okello.  Still dictating the terms, the firing soldiers stepped up pressure for more goals and five minutes later, Elvis Nandwa shook the net with a powerful left drive following a spade work by Waruru to register his only goal of the season.  Tusker's Sydney Ochieng came close to narrowing the gap in the 33rd minute. but his blockbuster inside the box missed the target by inches.  Waruru fired his brace in the 34th minute, when John Kago booted a high ball near the corner flag, which found Waruru well positioned to make a clinical finish. On resumption, coach Francis Baraza introduced Sempala Hashim, Jackson Macharia and Abdul Hassan for Humphrey Mieno, Brian Osumba and Boniface Muchiri a change that felt flat. On the opposite side, coach Benjamin Nyangweso brought in Ibrahim Shambi, Enosh Ochieng' and Oliver Ruto for Elvis Nandwa, Cliff Kasuti and Hassan 'Rio Mohammed, a move that saw the soldiers clinch their fourth goal. Shambi, who came in for Nandwa, fired the fourth goal in the 42nd minute after a superb through pass by Waruru. "I am happy we have concluded the season with a big win but it is also sad we did not clinch the title which was our ultimate goal at the beginning of the season," said coach Nyangweso. Ulinzi have completed the season with 48 points. Coach Baraza whose fate hangs in the balance after a disastrous ending, said he was shocked by the defeat. "This was not a good result to end the season, particularly when you're the defending champions and come next year we must do something to regain the lost glory," said a dejected Baraza. 
 