The Court Of Appeal has dismissed some lawyers’ claims that it did not sit on October 25 to suspend a High Court decision declaring appointment of IEBC returning officers illegal. In a tweet that has caused a storm in social media, lawyer Apollo Mboya on Wednesday claimed that the court did not sit, and that only one judge wrote the ruling and sent it to other two who appended their signatures. 6PM But Court of Appeal Registrar Moses Serem on Thursday said the appeal was heard and determined by a three judge-bench. He said the appeal was filed at 4pm on October 25 and the file was taken to the President of the appellate court Kihara Kariuki. Judge Kariuki, Mr Serem said,  certified the application urgent and set up a bench of three judges— Erastus Githinji, Martha Koome and Fatuma Sichale— to hear the matter. The three judges heard the application by Emmanuel Wetangula for IEBC and suspended Justice Odunga's judgement, he said. The bench constituted to hear the case by Justice Kariuki sat at 6pm and heard oral arguments from Mr Wetangula before retreating to write their ruling. While suspending Justice Odunga’s judgment, the court said it was necessary to avert a constitutional crisis. VERIFY The three judges reasoned that the decision by Judge Odunga had the potential of rendering the repeat presidential irregular even before they were held thus “precipitating another election outside 60 days in contravention of the provisions of Article 140(3) of the Constitution”. They also faulted the decision, saying in their view, the Constitution does not expressly give the courts the power to alter the election date. “Thus, a decision of the court regarding the holding of fresh presidential election had to be in conformity with Article 140(3) of the Constitution. The 60 days stipulated under Article 140(3) is sacrosanct and a decision having the effect of altering the stipulated date would not only be unconstitutional and thus invalid but it is likely to plunge the country into a constitutional crisis leading to anarchy,” the judges said. The registrar said anyone doubting his account can verify the details at the court’s registry.   Judge George Odunga says electoral commission broke the law.