The Supreme Court has been asked to determine what is to happen to electoral commission chairman Wafula Chebukati and his team should the October 26 presidential election be annulled. The prayer is contained in the petition by Mr Njonjo Mue and Mr Khelef Khalifa against the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission and its chairman, who is also the returning officer for the presidential election. INVALID The petitioners say that if the court once again declares the election invalid and orders that a fresh one be conducted, it should make “just, fit and appropriate orders as the circumstances warrant”. This, they say, should be in light of the fact that Mr Chebukati and his IEBC’s conduct would have been twice called into question. This prayer captures the unique circumstances Mr Chebukati and his team will have found themselves in by November 20, the date by which the Supreme Court ought to have determined the petitions filed on Monday. If he loses again, Mr Chebukati will obviously be worse off as the question of whether he can preside over a credible election will have been adequately answered. It is a situation one cannot envy, and Mr Chebukati appeared to have anticipated the need to do things differently by appointing a team to handle the fresh poll and then changing his lead lawyers. “This is the first chairman whose (presidential) election has been annulled,” said Mr Thomas Letangule, who was among commissioners forced out of the electoral agency in December last year. LEGAL TEAM “He had a chance to repeat it so he would wish to protect this particular election with his life.” Mr Letangule said there must be a good reason for Mr Chebukati to reconstitute the legal team, which could include the assumption that the new team “understands electoral laws and the election workings of the commission better”. With the dominant feeling being that the election was annulled because the IEBC was unable to explain itself, there is naturally a fear that a repeat performance would result in another annulment. “There is always that fear. Remember the judges themselves... the Chief Justice... said: ‘If you don’t do it right, we’ll annul again.’ I also expect that Jubilee will this time prepare nicely. Nobody is taking chances,” said Mr Letangule. Victory for Mr Chebukati would vindicate his decision to shunt aside chief executive Ezra Chiloba and his team and set up the project team that he credited with delivering the repeat poll. STRESSFUL This would also extend to the changes made in the team of lawyers. Woven into the petitions are attacks on Mr Chebukati’s competence and performance in a job he perhaps did not think would turn out to be as stressful as it has. Mr Mue faults Mr Chebukati for what he said was plunging the country into a further constitutional and general security crisis following the decision to proceed with the fresh poll. In his affidavit, former Kilome MP John Harun Mwau wants Mr Chebukati faulted for not holding fresh nominations for the repeat election after Mr Odinga’s withdrawal, and for the inclusion of former Lugari MP Cyrus Jirongo despite him being declared bankrupt by the High Court. Mr Mwau wonders how, with 30 years’ experience on the part of the chairman, 10 years on the part of Mr Chiloba and each with a Masters degree, the two IEBC bosses failed to make prudent decisions.  