Multi-tasking is a lifestyle, and lots of people don’t put down the phone, even when something good is on TV. Maybe you’ve even wondered how to connect mobile to TV during a binge-watching and binge-selfie session. With the new Smart View TV remote app, you can easily control the QLED TV from your phone. Pick a movie from the Smart Hub or change the channel with a few taps and then go right back to your texting marathon. Or use your living room TV to showcase the latest movie you shot on your phone. Content and connectivity right at your fingertips. SMART REMOTE Thanks to the innovative Invisible Connection, all your devices including phone, play station, set top box, DVD Player, home theatre among others, can be tucked out of sight, and even when they’re hidden away, the One Remote Control can control them easily. The QLED TV automatically detects what device is connected in each port, taking the guesswork out of switching from Blu-ray player to game console. You can easily take full advantage of your smart TV with an equally smart remote, seamlessly navigating between games and sports and streaming. SMART HUB The QLED TV is more than just a TV. It comes equipped with apps and services from streaming games, music, and HDR content to getting alerts when your favourite sports teams are scheduled to play. In short, it is an entertainment hub that gives you easy access to cloud gaming, high-quality HDR movies, and your favourite tunes, all in one streamlined package. INVISIBLE CONNECTION Consider the Invisible Connection cable as QLED TV’s lifeline. This nearly invisible optical cable measures a mere 1.8 mm in diameter and has a hub at the end that devices plug into, allowing them to be placed neatly out of sight. And you no longer have to point to each individual connected device because Invisible Connection sends signals from the TV to the devices for you. THE SPECS The Q7C has a 54.6-inch diagonally measured screen with a resolution of 3,840 by 2,160 pixels (4K Ultra HD). The refresh rate of the screen is 240 hertz, which means you get very smooth motion. The Q7C supports HDR10 and UHD upscaling.     The Zero 5 marks Infinix Mobility's entry into the dual back camera phones market.