Dollar inflows from Kenyans abroad hit a 13-year high two months ago with analysts calling for a more structured approach to tap its full potential by both the State and private sector. A section of experts now say that to boost the remittances, Kenya needs to review the tax treatment of diaspora cash and investments, by granting them export status as the government does for tourism. Remittances, experts contend, represent an “invisible export” that fully deserves this tax status, a proposal that has received huge backing from Kenyans abroad. Other nations including United Kingdom and South Africa even give refunds to tourists for taxes paid on purchase of goods in those countries, they argue. Market players concur that Kenyans working abroad have a real incentive to invest back home. “We are seeing a surge in remittances from Kenyans working abroad, attracted by the competitive rates Kenyan banks are paying on customer deposits, in addition to the good conversion rates their hard currency inflows are enjoying relative to the shilling,’’ says Ms Milka Wachira, head of diaspora banking at Co-operative Bank. Most recent data from the Central Bank of Kenya (CBK) indicates that the diaspora sent home $166 million (Sh17 billion) in the month of August 2017 alone, a new record. The first recorded data, January 2004, showed just over Sh2.5 billion was sent into the country. “This growth can be explained by the significant number of Kenyans living in the diaspora; approximately three million,” explains Mr Daniel Kuyoh, a senior investment analyst at Alpha Africa asset managers. “This points to a population that has the capacity to remit substantial funds back home whether for investment or consumption.” Experts attribute the rise in remittances to the recovery of developed world economies, which has led to a rise in average incomes of workers. A 2014 study revealed that Kenyan diaspora households in the US earned a high median annual income of $61,000, (about Sh6.3 million), which was $11,000 (about Sh1.13 million) higher than US households. “Secondly, we have also seen the recovery in the economies of developed markets since the 2008 global financial crisis, meaning there are more opportunities to generate income for the entire population and this increase in remittances could be a direct effect of this economic recovery,” said Mr Kuyoh. This comes as the Kenyan economy battles headwinds. The Kenya National Bureau of Statistics (KNBS) said growth slowed to 5 per cent in the second quarter of 2017, down from 6.3 per cent in the same period last year. It blamed this on drought, which impacted on the agriculture sector’s performance affecting key crops. Agriculture is a major source of employment and the country’s largest sector, accounting for 25 per cent of GDP and roughly 50 per cent of export revenue. The slowed growth has come amid fears that the long drawn-out political contest would continue crippling business. But now a lot is being said about the potential offered by diaspora with much of the debate focused on cash remittances. Money transfers by Kenyans abroad to support family and friends, with school fees and medical bills, are seen as the most common use of the cash. “Remittances are evidence of the monetisation of Kenya’s intellectual base. Typically in an economic slowdown, remittances tend to pick speed as external citizens try and cushion their families at home and also acquire cheap assets,” said Nairobi-based analyst and CEO of Rich Management, Aly-Khan Satchu while explaining the record inflows. According to a World Bank report Migration and Remittances Factbook, October 2017, Kenya is among the highest recipients of remittances in Africa. In 2017, the country is projected to receive a record $1.811 billion (Sh186 billion) from the diaspora. The report further notes that Nigeria would be the highest recipient in Africa, expected to bag $22.345 billion (Sh2.3 trillion). North African states follow closely, with Egypt receiving $18.199 billion and Morocco $7 billion this year. Senegal will receive $2.338 billion and Ghana $2.19 billion in 2017. A survey of the profile of Kenyans abroad done by the Co-operative Bank indicates that majority of Kenyan Diaspora estimated at over two million are in the 21 and 50 years age bracket. This pool of Kenyans, says the study, is gainfully engaged as employees in professions or self-employed, with incomes ranging between Sh100,000 and Sh2 million a month, adds the study. As such, their ability to access financial, technical, legal and related services is, therefore, critical to the realisation of their career goals, especially their need to conveniently invest back home. “The study was an eye-opener on the huge unmet needs of diaspora and the underrated potential of remittances, which encouraged us to invest in a service offering that gives diaspora clients fulfilling experience, making us a market leader in remittances with a 20 per cent market share,” added Ms Wachira. Experts have in the past called for the State to tap into the huge potential of remittances that they say remains untapped.  