The Kenya National Examinations Council on Wednesday replaced officers at a school in Trans-Nzoia County, where there was an attempt to open the chemistry paper before the scheduled time on Monday. Knec deployed new invigilators, a supervisor and a centre manager. The council has assured Kenyans that this year’s Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education examination would not be compromised. ARRESTED The principal of the school has since been arrested while a teacher is on the run. It was not clear if the teacher had been arrested by the time of going to press Wednesday. According to the new examination rules, any officer found guilty of encouraging irregularities is liable to a Sh5 million fine or a five-year jail term. Supervisors, invigilators and centre managers are required to collect relevant information and evidence which could be used in court or the National Examinations Appeals Tribunal if they suspect irregularities and malpractices during the tests. The development follows the amendment of the 2012 Knec Act early in the year. CONCLUDE On Thursday, the candidates write English (creative composition and essays based on set texts) and later sit chemistry paper two. The KCSE examination will conclude the week on Friday with home science, art and design, building and construction, electricity and power mechanics papers. The examination ends on November 29. The government has mobilised top officers, including cabinet and principal secretaries to supervise the examination. Meanwhile, two Form Four candidates delivered at Molo Sub-County Hospital on Monday night after completing two papers on the first day of the examination. They sat their papers at the hospital. Two police officers were at the hospital providing security for the pair and the examination materials. INFANTS The girls are students at two secondary schools in Kuresoi North Constituency. Hospital health administrator Dominic Mburu said the infants and their mothers were doing well and would be monitored closely. “We will discharge the girls once we are sure the newborns are okay,” said Mr Mburu. The father of one of the girls said his daughter was taken to the hospital on Monday and sat her chemistry paper before delivery. “She delivered a baby boy at midnight on Monday and proceeded with her examinations today,” he added.  