The country has suffered paralysis most of the year due to adversarial politics. The economy is tanking and earlier predictions of a 5.5 per cent growth have been slashed to 5.1 per cent, thanks to continued political uncertainty. Companies are closing and a number are issuing profit warnings and the impact is job losses and increased poverty. It is for this reason that the citizens are keenly following the petitions filed in the Supreme Court challenging the re-election of President Uhuru Kenyatta last month, hoping this will resolve the impasse once and for all. NASAOf immediate concern is the potential clash between the opposition and police Friday over plans to welcome Nasa leaders Raila Odinga and Kalonzo Musyoka on arrival back home from the US and Europe, respectively. Already, the police have declared all the activities planned by the opposition illegal. On Thursday, they blocked opposition politicians from getting into the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport and also Kamukunji grounds where they had planned a rally. Neither were they allowed entry into Kibera where they decided to shift the rally to.The police contend that these could degenerate into chaos and undermine peace and stability. However, condemning and blocking opposition plans over imagined threats is counter-intuitive. There is no harm in the opposition holding rallies as long as they have followed the law by notifying the police. FORCE Left on their own, the opposition leaders and followers will go for the rallies, make their statements and go home. But when they are denied that chance, they get agitated and resort to force, which, in turn, breeds violence. After months of running battles with the opposition, which ended with grave consequences, the police should have learnt better. They should have known the folly of using force to stifle dissent. Other than the airport, which is a security zone, there is no reason to outlaw opposition rallies so long as they do not threaten peace and tranquility. More crucially, the opposition leadership must recognise the sensitivities of the moment and desist from activities that are likely to foment chaos.  