Champions Telkom take on United States International University of Africa (USIU-A) Spartans Sunday in a top-of-the-table Kenya Hockey Union women’s Premier League match at the City Park Stadium, Nairobi. The fixture is one of 11 matches set for this weekend in Nairobi, Mombasa and Nakuru. Men’s Premier League leaders Kenya Police take on USIU men’s team Saturday evening looking to move 15 points clear, while in Mombasa, Mvita and Mombasa Sports Club face off in a local derby in the second tier men’s league. MAIN RIVALS Fresh from their hard-fought 3-2 win against arch-rivals Strathmore University Scorpions last weekend, Telkom face second-placed Spartans, who have turned out to be their main rivals for the title this season. Telkom lead the table with 42 points, eight ahead of the students and a win will move them closer to a record breaking 20th league crown. Telkom conceded their first goal of the league after keeping a clean sheet for 13 matches and coach Jos Openda admits his charges will need another big performance. “Scorpions pushed us all the way last weekend and we expect another tough duel against USIU. We therefore need to rise up to the occasion and show our might,” Openda said Friday spoiling for a fight. Telkom’s Audrey Omaido, who leads the scoring charts with 18 goals, has not scored in three matches and will be aiming to end the goal drought.  Her strike partner Jackline Mwangi (17goals), scored the opener against the Scorpions. Spartans coach Willis Okeyo is well aware that the match is a must-win for his team and believes that Scorpions exposed Telkom’s defensive flaws. “We have had a good season with the only blot been a loss against Telkom in the first leg. We want to avenge that loss,” Okeyo said.  Spartans’ striker Rhoda Kuira, who is on 16 goals, will lead her team’s forward. Spartans lost the first leg encounter 10-0 on March 26, 2017. Runaway leaders Police will take a huge step in reclaiming the title they last won in 2013 with a win against USIU.  The law enforcers are on a roll winning 19 out of the 20 matches played so far this season, and are yet to lose a match. Kennath Kaunda’s charges were ruthless in their 4-0 win against Parkroad Badgers last weekend, and Kaunda will want more of the same this afternoon. “We are not relenting and the goal is to try and win all the matches this season and be crowned champions,” he said. Fixtures (All matches at City Park Stadium unless stated) Saturday  Premier Women: UON v JKUAT- 12noon National Men: Gorilla v Impala -2pm, Mvita v MSC –Mombasa (3pm) Premier Men: Sikh Union v Chase Sailors – 4pm, Kenya Police v USIU- 6pm Sunday Premier Women: Vikings v Multimedia- 9am, USIU v Telkom – 11am National Men: Wazalendo Masters v Parkroad Tigers – 1pm Premier Men: Nakuru v KCA-U(9am) – Nakuru, Parkroad Badgers v Wazalendo – 3pm, USIU v Parklands – 5pm 
 