Kenya remains a ‘sleeping giant’, whichever way one looks at it. Since independence five decades ago, per capita GDP has nearly doubled from $500 to $1,200. In that time, Malaysia has lapped us about five times more and Singapore nearly 50 times. There is no reason why Kenya shouldn’t be playing in this league. Below is a cookbook towards Kenya’s greatness, coming out of the recent fiercely contested election. Tushauriane Wakenya (TW) is a multi-sectoral initiative that brings together diaspora, politicians, private and informal sectors, religious leaders, academia, community elders, and civil society. FINGER-POINTING A national conversation, without finger-pointing, can get Kenya out of the current pit. It is concerned about the content and quality of the conversation, not just ‘nusu mkate’ (coalition government). Five key areas are identified, which don’t even require constitutional amendments. They are premised on the fact that contrary to emerging belief, bungled elections are only a symptom, not the root cause of Kenya’s dilemma. Exclusion, impunity and inequality are. TW also suggests interventions, some of which might require constitutional tweaking. Firstly, is the deepening of devolution – our pathway to equity and equality, enshrined in Article 10 of the Constitution. Devolution offers an opportunity if resources are put to proper use. We propose increasing the minimum to counties from 15 per cent to 50 per cent. Secondly, to address glaring disparities, and exclusion in distribution of opportunities and jobs. Only merit, equity and diversity should determine appointments. All ministries, departments and agencies at the national level must reflect ‘Face of Kenya’. At the county level, affirmative action might be necessary so that minorities and other groups (including diaspora) are not disenfranchised.OVERSIGHTThirdly, is strengthening of oversight. We propose institutionalisation of ‘Official Opposition’, not as a reward to ‘losers’, but leveraging runners-up to improve oversight. There should be the Official Opposition Leader, deputy and Shadow Cabinet that check the government of the day, and offer alternative policies and programmes. The size of the Shadow Cabinet should be half the Executive. The same should happen at county level. The runner-up gubernatorial candidate should form a Shadow Cabinet with half (five) county executives. This is critical in the so-called strongholds, where single-parties rein. It is not tenable for Jubilee MCAs in Central or ODM in Nyanza to keep county governments in check. Fourthly, start addressing historical injustices as spelt out in Agenda 4 of the 2007/8 National Accord. We should be careful not to raise the TJRC or Ndugu Land Commission reports yet. The country is still so polarised that it may not handle some of these very painful facts. There is a need to improve the electoral system. INJUSTICE We are careful not to call it ‘electoral injustice’ or ‘fraud’ as that alienates the other half. TW firmly believes that the electoral system has to be improved, even as we recognise the great strides made over the decades from the Kanu era ‘mlolongo’ (queue-voting). It is not just about the IEBC and results transmission, but the entire electoral cycle from voter registration to results declaration. Six steps are critical here: Enfranchising the excluded 30 per cent of eligible voters (without national IDs, newly married women, just-turned-18s, and diaspora), excising shambolic party primaries, and enforcing true multi-partism. Others are regulation of finance and state/county resources, especially in election campaigns, and equal application of the law, and streamlining use of technology. TW believes in more, not less technology. A more detailed discussion is in this article: Five ways to prevent rigging of elections. Dr Ochuodho, a former MP for Rangwe, is the global chairperson, Kenya Diaspora Alliance (KDA). shemochuodho@yahoo.com  