Raila Odinga’s elder brother Oburu Oginga is among nominees of the National Super Alliance to the East African Legislative Assembly (Eala). The list of 12 also has Kennedy Musyoka, the son of Nasa co-principal and Wiper party leader Kalonzo Musyoka, Nasa CEO Norman Magaya, former MPs Abdikadir Mohammed (Mbalambala) and Fatuma Ibrahim (Wajir Woman Rep). MARWA Others on the list are Winfred Mutua, Justus Mochoge, Angela Munyasya, Loy Maviala, Abubakar Zain, Beth Mutunga and Jane Marwa. National Assembly Minority Leader John Mbadi on Thursday said all the Nasa-affiliate parties agreed on the final list. House clerks Michael Sialai (National Assembly) and Jeremiah Nyegenye (Senate) received the nomination papers of all the candidates and issued them with provisional certificates. Earlier in the day, Jubilee Party had presented its list of 15. The names of those nominated by both parties will now be presented to the joint committee on Tuesday next week. CONCERNS The joint committee consisting of members of the National Assembly and the Senate will vet the nominees and present their report on Wednesday before the final election is made on December 13. The joint committee co-chair Katoo Ole Metito on Wednesday expressed concern that Kenya is the only country delaying the activities of Eala. He urged parties to present their nominees so that the process can be concluded before Parliament goes on long break next week. "Kenya can no longer be the country holding to ransom the take-off of the assembly," Mr Metito said. AMANI Separately, nine MPs allied to the Amani National; Congress (ANC) on Thursday protested House leadership list presented to National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi on Wednesday. The lawmakers, led by Ayub Savula (Lugari), claimed the party led by Nasa co-principal Musalia Mudavadi was short-changed. But ANC’s nominated MP Godfrey Osotsi accused his colleagues of impatience. He said the matter was being addressed at the party’s top level asked them to desist from canvassing the coalition’s issues in the media. 
  
Former Clerk of the National Assembly Justin Bundi also on the list of 15.