He claims to have witnessed the death of Nyeri Governor Wahome Gakuru on Tuesday. He also appeared a day after a helicopter crash killed five people in Lake Nakuru. He is Dennis Muigai Ngengi, the “serial witness”. The Nation is yet to verify who he is, but Inspector-General of Police Joseph Boinnet yesterday promised to investigate and unveil who the “witness-in-chief” is. POLICE “It is said that there is an individual who appeared in both accident scenes. It is claimed that he is a police officer. I will find out if it is true he is an officer or not. If yes, then I will be interested in knowing what he was doing at those two scenes,” said Mr Boinnet. The IG spoke in Mombasa port where he commissioned surveillance boats that are meant boost the war on illicit trade through the Indian Ocean. Mr Ngengi, who was interviewed live on Citizen TV on Tuesday, claimed to have witnessed the accident that claimed Dr Gakuru’s life near Kabati on the Thika-Sagana highway in Murang’a County. He disputed a police version that a tyre burst caused the accident, which saw the governor’s car ram a guard rail, saying the driver lost control of the vehicle as he tried to avoid hitting a motorcycle ferrying meat. CRASH “I was on my way to Nairobi from Nyeri when the accident happened,” he said, adding that he actually spoke to the governor who reportedly told him he was hurt in the leg. A social media alert sent out by the TV station hours later reported the driver’s version of the accident corroborated that of Mr Ngengi, who said he was being driven by a female police officer behind the governor’s car. But of interest is that two weeks ago, he was also at the scene of the Lake Nakuru helicopter crash where five people died. After the crash on October 21, Mr Ngengi, who described himself as a “State pilot”, told the NTV crew he was a friend and colleague of the deceased pilot. Whether it is by mere coincidence or not, Mr Ngengi’s mysterious presence at the two accident scenes has many Kenyans wondering who he is. Social media went abuzz on Wednesday, with some trying to unmask the identity of the man who donned sunglasses after both accidents.  