Goldalyn Kakuya of St Anne Junior Lubao in Kakamega County has emerged the top candidate in the 2017 Standard 8 national exams. Kakuya beat all odds that come with albinism to score 455 out the possible 500 marks. SONG, DANCE Her teachers on Tuesday told the Nation that she braved long spells of poor health due to her condition to remain a top performer throughout her primary education. Kakuya has been leading her class since she joined the school for her Early Child Development Education. Teachers and parents at the school broke into song and dance after learning of her impressive performance.   The school's head-teacher Mukoya Nambande said the ever cheerful girl had done the school proud. "We knew she would score highly in KCPE because of her consistent performance. She has always topped," said Mr Nambande. 447 MARKS Teachers, who describer her as very disciplined, hard working and a role model, said the girl is a gifted dancer and handball player. Her father is a manager at West Kenya Sugar while the mother is a lecturer at Kibabi University.   Kakuya, who is  a good public speaker, told the Nation that her dream is to become a neurosurgeon. Sharon Nkatha Murega of Kathigiri Primary in Meru County emerged the second best overall with 447 marks. The 14-year-old girl attributed her good grades to her classmates, parents and teachers who motivated her throughout her primary education. She said she was very glad that she would now join her dream high school— Alliance Girls. SURPRISE “I am glad that I will be able to join a high school of my choice and later save people's lives because I want to take a medical career," she told the Nation.   Her parents— Mary Murega and Robert Murega—said the marks she got came as a surprise to them. "We expected her to score 430 marks. 447 was a surprise, "said her mother The school's head-teacher Eustace Micheni  attributed the girl’s  good results to hard work and support from teachers and parents. "She was very hardworking, committed and very preserved. Her class too was very competitive which made her to really work hard," she said. The school had 71 candidates.   Tests are for candidates who may fall sick, lose their parents or give birth.