Chief of Defence Forces Gen Samson Mwathethe Wednesday led the military in a full dress rehearsal of President Uhuru Kenyatta’s swearing-in next Tuesday for a second term. In the elaborate and meticulous ceremony held at the Moi International Sports Centre, Kasarani, the military took its members through what will be expected of them when they usher in their commander-in-chief for a second term. In the rehearsal, Gen Mwathethe rode in the commander-in-chief’s vehicle but with the coat of arms and the initials CIC covered, as it can only be uncovered if the Head of State is riding it. MILITARY MC As he rode into the stadium, akin to what the president will do on Tuesday, military master of ceremonies Warrant Officer II Gibson Mwandawiro – the man with the distinctive voice explaining military traditions to the public and the commander-in-chief – was on hand to direct the car and journalists present on what will happen during the swearing-in ceremony. Mr Mwandawiro, who has become synonymous with national functions, took his colleagues through the order of events, how he will be introducing them, and also familiarised himself with the parade commanders on Mr Kenyatta’s big day. Save for the handover of the instruments of power that happened in 2013 when President Kenyatta took over from President Mwai Kibaki, every other bit of the function will be as detailed as it was. TAKE OATH President Kenyatta, accompanied by his deputy William Ruto, will be expected at the 60,000-seater Kasarani Stadium after 10am and will both take the oath of allegiance, and the oath of due execution of office, before signing them. The oath of office will be administered by the Chief Registrar of the Judiciary Anne Amadi and witnessed by Chief Justice David Maraga. The oath will be followed by a 21-gun salute, an honour the military gives to welcome their new commander-in-chief, who in this case, will have extended his term. The ceremony, by law, should happen in public not earlier than 10am, and not later than 2pm. After being sworn in, President Kenyatta will give his inaugural second term speech, which by all indications will be geared towards an economic transformation plan and a concerted effort to heal a nation deeply divided by a protracted political dispute.  