Runaway leaders Kenya Police take their unbeaten run to Nakuru on Saturday as they look to close in on the Kenya Hockey Union men’s Premier League title. The law enforcers will be looking to maintain their 12-point advantage when they take on the hosts at the Greensteds grounds. The fixture is one of 13 matches lined up this weekend with 10 of them at City Park Stadium, Nairobi.  Women’s champions Telkom will also be aiming to keep their 100 percent record and extend their lead when they take on Sliders on Sunday, while second-placed USIU Spartans face Vikings on Saturday as they bid to keep the pressure on the leaders. Greensharks, who are second placed in the men’s top flight league, cannot afford any slip up when they welcome Kakamega’s Western Jaguars Saturday evening.  Bottom-placed Technical University of Kenya take on Kenya College of Accountancy of University (KCA-U) in a relegation dogfight on Sunday. In Nakuru, Police will be hoping to end a run of two years without win at the grass surface. With 17 wins from 18 matches, the 2013 champions are favourites to clinch three points. Police coach Kenneth Kaunda is however warning against any complacency. “Nakuru have players who can make life difficult for us and they will definitely come at us. We therefore need to be on top of our game,” Kaunda said. Police skipper Oliver Echenje, who scored a brace in last weekend’s 4-0 win over KCA-U, will marshal the midfield alongside Willis Okeyo. Police won the first leg fixture 4-0 on April 29 this year. POLICE WARNED Club top scorer Amos Barkibir will lead the attack alongside Samuel Wokila and Calvin Kanu. Nakuru coach Tony Agesa has warned Police to brace for a fight. “We will not roll over and just allow them to win, we need the points just like them. It will be thriller,” he said. Nakuru, who are in 10th place with 21 points, beat USIU 3-1 before losing 4-1 to former champions Butali Sugar Warriors last weekend. Sharks could find themselves 15 points behind the leaders by the time they kick off at 6pm and coach Ben Owaga admits there is no room for error. The Nairobi-based side will be boosted by last weekend’s 3-1 win over Butali. “We are hoping that they (Police) will drop points soon but we have got to win our matches to have a chance,” Owaga said. Champions Strathmore University Gladiators, who have had a season to forget, will be hoping to move further away from the relegation zone with a win against Parklands. FIXTURES (All matches at the City Park Stadium unless stated) Saturday Premier Women: Strathmore University v JKUAT- 10am, USIU v Vikings – 2pm National Men: Dedan Kimathi v Wazalendo Youth – 12noon Premier Men: Nakuru v Kenya Police (Nakuru) – 2pm, Strathmore University v Parklands – 4pm., Greensharks v Western Jaguars – 6pm Sunday Premier Men: KU Vultures v Western Jaguars – 9am, USIU v Chase Sailors- 1pm, TUK v KCAU- 3pm, Sikh Union v Strathmore University – 5pm National Men: Kabarak University v JKUAT – 12noon 
 