There have been mixed reactions in various parts of the country following the Supreme Court decision to throw out petitions challenging the declaration of President Uhuru Kenyatta as the winner of the October 26 repeat election. Jubilee supporters took to the streets to celebrate the decision while opposition supporters in various parts of the country came out in protest. However, in some areas, life went on as usual with no protests or celebrations being witnessed. In many towns of Kiambu County, where Mr Kenyatta hails from, residents took to the streets to celebrate the apex court’s decision. They praised the judges saying they had saved the country from sliding into anarchy. Along the busy Thika Road, it was song, dance and ululations as President Kenyatta’s supporters came out to celebrate as soon as the Supreme Court delivered its decision. The celebrations started from Githurai with the Jubilee supporters dancing their way to the city centre. In Kericho, Governor Paul Chepkwony applauded the Supreme Court ruling and congratulated the Jubilee administration following their "much-deserved" court victory. At the same time, Kericho Senator Aaron Cheruiyot said that President Kenyatta's humility in respecting the courts had finally paid off. In Nairobi’s Kawangware 56, youths engaged anti-riot police in a hide-and-seek game as they barricaded roads and then rushed to hide in their houses. The youths who were protesting the Supreme Court’s decision to throw out petitions challenging President Kenyatta’s win in the August 26 repeat poll. Kawangware experienced violence following the declaration of the August 8 presidential election results. In Migori, a man was shot dead as people protested the Supreme Court ruling.  Eric Mandela, who was not part of the demonstrations, was killed as he crossed the Migori-Tanzania road which had been blocked by protestors. A witness claimed he was shot by the police with county Police Commander Joseph Nthenge saying they were investigating the incident. 
 