Two red cards highlighted the tension-filled SportPesa Premier League match pitting Sofapaka against Mathare United that ended in a goalless draw at the Narok County Stadium on Wednesday. Mohammed Kilume and David Owino were sent off in the second half for second bookable offences as both teams played for the final 25 minutes with 10 men. The draw did little to help the relegation-threatened Mathare United, who remained 15th on 32 points, same as Thika United although the Slum Boys have a superior goal difference. Sofapaka leapfrogged Posta Rangers into third thanks to a better goal margin. Mathare United coach Francis Kimanzi blamed the condition of the playing surface but said his boys are not panicking as the fight to avoid relegation surges on. “Very scrappy affair and difficult due to the bumpy surface and things got worse when we had a player sent off but overall, we both deserved to share the points,” said Kimanzi, who handled Sofapaka in 2010. “Every game since the beginning of the season is important to us. We want to be in a better and secure position thus we shall remain composed and focus on our game plan in the remaining games. We are working harder to be safe but we aren’t panicking,” he said. His opposite number Sam Ssimbwa rued the absence of their top scorer Umar Kasumba, who missed the duel with a shoulder injury. “We were playing a wounded buffalo so it was going to be tough. Missing Kasumba was tough. He could have converted the few chances we created especially in the last 20 minutes,” said the Ugandan. Coming into the game, 2009 champions Sofapaka aimed to pick from a 2-1 win registered in the first leg in April. It was however the visitors who had a better start, testing Mathias Kigonya early on. Cliff Nyakeya shook off his marker in the opening minutes but shot directly at Kigonya. John Mwangi then saw his pile driver saved by an overstretched Kigonya on 20 minutes. Rodgers Aloro had his 22nd minute free-kick palmed back into play by Levis Opiyo as both teams struggled to string passes together on the bumpy surface.  Edward Seda, the returning Roy Syamba and Chris Oduor exchanged quick passes before releasing Nyakeya, but he could not beat Kigonya with seven minutes to the break. Ssimbwa brought on Mike Oduor for the evergreen Hillary Echesa at the start of the second half. Kilume collected his first booking after fouling Nyakeya in the 52nd minute but Seda’s resultant free kick went wide. OWINO OFF Kilume was given his matching orders for a foul on Seda 12 minutes later and seconds on, Owino followed him for an early shower for bringing down Ezekiel Okare. Kimanzi was then forced to change his plans, having initially directed Ezekiel Mwanzia to warm up, and introduced defender Martin Ongori for Mwangi in the 71st minute. Nyakeya missed a golden opportunity to break the deadlock a minute later, after miscalculating his shot in front of an empty net after Kigonya had been beaten by Lennox Ogutu’s lob. Kimanzi, desperate to take the three points, threw into the fray Harrison Mwendwa and Ronald Reagan for Chris Ochieng’ and Nyakeya in the 76th and 81st minutes respectively but the changes yielded no fruits. Sofapaka play deposed champions Tusker next while the Slum Boys tackle Nzoia Sugar on Sunday. 
  
Champions-elect Gor Mahia rallied from behind to beat Western Stima 2-1 at Kasarani.