Nyeri MCAs have set aside Sh36 million as compensation to the family of Governor Wahome Gakuru following his death in a road accident on November 7. They allocated another Sh10 million to offset funeral expenses. In a report tabled in the assembly Thursday, members of the Budget and Appropriations Committee proposed changes to the supplementary budget to provide for the expenditure. ASSEMBLY They also set aside Sh20 million for insurance premiums but did not specify who the beneficiaries of the cover will be. The report will be debated by the whole assembly and, if adopted, Governor Mutahi Kahiga will spend the taxpayers’ money according to the plan. The team suggested the allocation for access roads be increased by Sh85 million to Sh135 million. The MCAs have scrapped the Sh14 million they had earlier allocated for the purchase of a new vehicle for the county boss. The Agriculture Department had been allocated Sh24 million for the procurement of manure to improve soil fertility and agricultural productivity but the amount has also been scrapped. The funds have now been channelled towards road works in wards. The Department of Finance and Economic Planning had an initial allocation of Sh50 million but the MCAs have reduced the amount to Sh30 million. The difference has been redirected to projects by other departments. BUDGET Some Sh50 million initially allocated for the construction of buildings at the county assembly has been redirected to road projects. The Department of Water, Environment and Natural Resources was one of the main beneficiaries in the supplementary budget with an allocation of Sh300 million. The county will spend Sh5.5 billion on recurrent expenditure and Sh2.3 million on development activities. According to the budget committee chairman, Mr Gibson Wahinya, the county is grappling with a huge wagebill that is eating into development funds. The county’s wagebill stands at 44 per cent as opposed to the 35 per cent provided for in the Constitution. “There is a need to address this issue,” said Mr Wahinya. “The committee noted that over Sh200 million is spent to pay revenue collection officers. Revenue collection is becoming too expensive and strict measures should, therefore, be put in place to address the issue.”  