DELAWARE, USAMoments before Nasa leader Raila Odinga stepped onto the podium to give the much-anticipated speech last Thursday in Washington, a small pick-up truck bearing Virginia state number plates pulled into the parking lot, two blocks away from the venue. In the pickup at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) were hundreds of handwritten posters, placards and fliers bearing messages such as "We Love You Baba", "Welcome to the USA Baba", "Give us Directions", "Resist! NRM", et cetera.  SPIESWhat had prompted National Super Alliance supporters to burn the midnight oil making these posters was a rumour the previous day, which was later discounted as false, that Jubilee Party supporters in the US under the direction of the Kenyan embassy were being mobilised to protest at the venue.  The idea, according Ken Agwa and his ODM DC Metro team, was to counter any anti-Odinga rally, a message that was spread on WhatsApp and Facebook.  The situation was more tense after allegations emerged among opposition supporters that three Kenyan government agents — two men and a woman — had been sent to the venue to spy on Mr Odinga, with some even suggesting the team was out to harm him.  SECURITYThis information was not taken lightly by Mr Odinga’s supporters, especially those who were organising other meetings — in Maryland and Jersey City. "These were supposed to be public meetings held in venues where it would not only be very hard to control crowds surging forward to greet him but it would also be impossible to vet everyone coming in," Abel Oriri, a Nasa supporter who had travelled from Cleveland, Ohio, to attend the meeting at CSIS, said.  During a conference call held that afternoon by the organisers, it was suggested that either they call off the meetings or hire a credible security firm to watch over the three events. "The suggestion that we call off the meetings was quickly discarded because in the first place, Jakom (Raila) himself would not hear of such a thing.  "Hiring a security firm was okay even though it could not guarantee 100 per cent security," he said. CROWD Another source continued: "But then, as we were discussing, we realised that two of the people on the conference call were State Troopers (policemen)."  The two were encouraged to take time off work and help arrange for private security. A Kenyan resident in Springfield, Maryland, who spoke anonymously, said: "That is why you saw people form a diamond ring around Raila at the Hilton when the crowd surged forward and almost caused chaos during the meeting in DC.  "Way before people started coming into the venue, the guys had swept the place looking for things such as explosives." DECOYIn New Jersey, security was tight. Every person entering the venue was subjected to a search.  While it had earlier been announced that Mr Odinga was jetting into the Garden State from DC through Newark International airport, he arrived by train and was picked up by Matt Mayer, the chief executive of New Castle County, Delaware.  At the venues, he also used back entrances, catching even those who wanted to pose for pictures with him by surprise. SAFETY Mr Odinga has been to the US many times.  And in almost all those visits, including the one he made to Boston University soon after the 2013 presidential elections, he would mingle freely with Kenyans. It was different this time. Efforts undertaken by his close friends and supporters in the US to ensure his safety were unprecedented. Why? POLITICS Mr Salim Lone, Mr Odinga’s long-time advisor and confidant, said that the ground on which Kenyan politics stands has shifted. "I’ve been with Raila on visits to the US before but there has never been such extraordinary level of interest in him from the entire establishment; the US State Department and Congressional leaders as well as experts on African [issues].  "I believe that his very sober discussions on the current Kenyan crisis has altered some basic US perceptions of Kenya’s stability and perception of Raila himself," Mr Lone said. ELECTIONS He added that the disputed elections have contributed to the new developments. The advisor said questions on how the August 8 and October 26 elections were conducted and problems at the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission were discussed to counter a narrative perpetuated by the Kenyan government and Western diplomats in Nairobi.  "But that entire narrative was shattered by a low turnout for President Kenyatta in the rerun (on October 26)," he said.  "While there had been unhappiness in the US over Raila not participating in the October 26 election, it became clear that its conduct and outcome vindicated his decision to stay out." 
  
Odinga said Kenyans will not accept to be dragged back to the dark past.