Former Budalang’i MP Ababu Namwamba couldn’t garner enough votes in the last election to save his life. Like many other Kenyans who follow live parliamentary debates on national television, I’ll miss his wit and eloquence. Mr Namwamba was always going to struggle trying to retain his seat having fallen out with ODM, the most popular party in his constituency and in which he once held the senior post of secretary general. SIGIRI BRIDGE But he might also want to ponder how much more damage was inflicted on his re-election campaign by the untimely fall of Sigiri Bridge and his later association with Mbekho Mbekho, the group of out-of-favour local politicians ridiculed back in their villages for making self-serving visits to State House. Sigiri was especially significant because it was sold as a special development gift to the people of flood-prone Budalang’i from their then MP’s newfound friends in Jubilee. Its fall due to shoddy engineering, despite its outrageously inflated cost of Sh1 billion, could only have symbolised a broken promise to the voters, portrayed Jubilee as fraudulent and denied Mr Namwamba a key campaign platform. NASA LEADERS The election loss might have dimmed Mr Namwamba’s political star, but it hasn’t quite knocked him out. Indeed, the man nicknamed Ababu Smart has shown admirable enterprise picking himself up, dusting himself off and moving on so quickly. Through his new lobby dubbed Africa Council of Professionals, which is made up mostly of Mbekho Mbekho-type election losers and right wing intellectuals, the former Budalang’i MP has maintained a measure of relevance playing an attack dog role for the ruling party. In the past 10 days alone, the Namwamba group has parachuted to Addis Ababa to purportedly lobby for AU sanctions against opposition Nasa leaders, threatened to have them prosecuted at the International Criminal Court, pushed for the deregistration of opposition parties and called for voting to be made compulsory. FREEDOMS A lot of people will dismiss them as overzealous busybodies considering their lack of individual clout. But given the possibility that they are simply amplifying views held by senior establishment figures, Kenyans should be worried about an emerging agenda that would amount to an extreme assault on our democracy and freedoms. Granted, many gullible Kenyans don’t take their voting right seriously and would easily give it away to a politician in exchange for a bribe or to feed cultural sentiment. POLITICAL RIGHTThe alpha male politician from our tribe still largely decides for most of us which ethnic alliance to identify with and which candidate to vote for in a presidential election. But at least we still have the choice to rethink or rubberstamp his decision at the ballot box. Better still, we can choose to stay at home. Making voting compulsory, as Mr Namwamba and Co are advocating, will see many Kenyans lose the only political right they practically enjoy, and risk going to jail while at it. Kenyans, resist. jkotieno@ke.nationmedia.com @otienootieno  