Bandari forward Edwin Lavatsa on Wednesday became the first player to score four goals in the SportPesa Premier League this season in their 6-2 demolition of Muhoroni Youth at the Muhoroni Stadium.  The result, meanwhile, pushed Muhoroni Youth closer to relegation after five years in the top flight, even as it offered some joy to the Coastal-based Bandari, with the team having been caught up in post-election skirmishes at Ahero on Tuesday, while enroute for the assignment. In other league matches played Wednesday, champions-elect Gor Mahia rallied from behind to beat Western Stima 2-1 at Kasarani, whilst AFC Leopards inconsistent performances this term continued, losing 2-0 to Nzoia Sugar at the Mumias Sports Complex.  Leopards immediately lodged a complaint with the Kenyan Premier League with the team protesting over the conduct of centre referee Moses Simiyu, whom they claimed is an employee of Nzoia Sugar Company which sponsors Nzoia Sugar. Also, Posta Rangers defeated Kakamega Homeboyz by a solitary goal at the Narok County Stadium, as struggling Thika United beat Sony Sugar by a similar margin, a result that enhances their chances of retaining their top flight status.   In Nakuru, Ulinzi Stars and Kariobangi Sharks battled to a 1-1 draw, as was the case at the Chemelil Sports Complex where Tusker and Chemelil Sugar also shared the spoils. Lavatsa's feat however was the story of the day, considering the striker has been on and off with injuries this season. "This is my most memorable moment in the league," said Lavatsa, formerly at Gor Mahia and Mathare United. "I didn't imagine it will happen. Now I want to keep scoring." In Narok, a 68th minute header from Kennedy Otieno handed Posta Rangers a narrow 1-0 win over Kakamega Homeboyz in a dour encounter.  Crucially, this result ensured Rangers leapfrog Homeboyz into third place on the standings as the battle for second, third and fourth place in the league heads into the remaining three games.  The former Thika United and Western Stima man perfectly headed in Titus Achesa's left foot in swinger, an effort that left Homeboyz keeper David Juma with no chance.  "Fatigue affected us," Homeboyz coach Mike Mururi bemoaned. "We arrived yesterday after a long journey and we couldn't squeeze any further energy especially in the second half." The game also marked the return of coach Sammy 'Pamzo' Omollo having served a three-match suspension.    RESULTS Gor Mahia 2-1 Western Stima Posta Rangers 1-0 Kakamega Homeboyz Nzoia Sugar 2-0 AFC Leopards Muhoroni Youth 2-6 Bandari  Chemelil Sugar 1-1 Tusker Nakumatt 1-1 Zoo Kericho Ulinzi Stars 1-1 Kariobangi Sharks Sofapaka 0-0 Mathare United Reports by David Kwalimwa, Vincent Opiyo and Francis Mureithi 
  
The win saw Rangers leapfrog Homeboyz into third place.