Technical University of Kenya’s chances of staying in the Kenya Hockey Union men’s Premier League are becoming slimmer and slimmer. The students, who are in their debut season in the topflight league, are tucked at the bottom of the table with a paltry five points after losing again at the weekend. Their 2-0 loss to Kenya College of Accountancy University (KCA-U) was their 17th defeat of the season from 20 matches. They are yet to win a match since the second leg started in September and with eight games left, time is running out for them. TUK coach Peter Mwathe admitted that the remaining eight matches would be defining for his charges, challenging them to rise to the occasion and secure their survival. “Our attitude has got to change from henceforth. If we want to remain in the league we must win matches and time is running out,” Mwathe said. The students’ sole win this season came against Western Jaguars on June 10. They welcome Nakuru on Sunday at the City Park Stadium knowing only a win will do good to their course. “Our players are good but they need to start believing in themselves and show what they can do on the pitch,” he added. Jaguars occupy second last place on 18 points and also face the prospects of been axed. With the bottom two dropping to the second tier league, it is crunch time for teams at the bottom. Six clubs including champions Strathmore University are also not safe with five points separating eighth placed Parklands with Jaguars down in 14th. At the top, leaders Kenya Police continue to soar after their 2-0 win away to Nakuru moved them 55 points, 12 ahead of second placed Greensharks. Four more wins could guarantee them their first title since 2013 after an impressive season which has brought 18 wins from 19 matches so far. USIU moved up to third spot with 38 points, relegating 2015 champions Butali Sugar Warriors to fourth spot with 36 points. Wazalendo, who are a point back, complete the top five standings. In the women’s Premier League, champions Telkom continue to lead the way with seven matches left to play this season. Their 3-0 win over former champions Sliders moved them to 39 points, five ahead of second placed UISU Spartans, who also won over the weekend. Nineteen-time champions Telkom have yet to drop a point this season and have also not concede a goal. Amira Sailors are in third spot with 30 points.  