Some Members of Parliament have demanded for an explanation from the Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet and Nairobi police boss Japheth Koome over the fatal shooting of a boy in Pipeline estate earlier this week. Seven-year-old boy Geoffrey Mutinda was shot and killed as he played with his friends on a balcony at home when police clashed with supporters of Raila Odinga on Tuesday. Majority whip in the National Assembly Benjamin Washiali, Caleb Amisi (Saboti), Martin Owino (Ndhiwa) and Migori Woman Representative Pamela Ochieng condemned the excessive use of force by police during the chaos. INVESTIGATION Mr Washiali, however, said he was not sure whether it was actually the police who killed the schoolboy but called for immediate investigation into the incident by police. “The police should investigate and let the killers be known,” Mr Washiali said. He said if it is true the killers were on a motorcycle then they may not be the police and their identities ought to be revealed. Ndhiwa MP said the Inspector General and Nairobi police boss owe the public an explanation over the death of the minor. “It is the two who gave the police orders before they were deployed to the area, police are trained to operate within the law but the behaviour of police in the recent past depicts a militia that is on a mission to kill and not to protect property and lives,” Mr Owino said. “We need an immediate arrest of the killers because police know them, we don’t want to be promised investigations which will not amount to anything, investigations have been done in this country but we have never seen any implementation,” Mr Owino added. MOTHER'S PAIN Migori Woman Representative said she was pained by the death of the boy. “As a mother, I cannot take the killing of a child lightly, the police need to observe the rule of law while doing their work,” said Mrs Ochieng. Mr Amisi said police in the country lack basic training on crowd control and normally resorts to shooting of innocent civilians. “What does a seven-year-old child has to do with Nasa demonstrations? The killing is an indication that we have rogue officers who do not respect life,” Mr Amisi said. Stephanie Moraa, 10, was killed in a similar fashion at the height of police clashes with supporters of the National Super Alliance in August.   Mutinda was shot and killed in Pipeline Estate.