Tucked away in Nairobi is a small heaven, rich with heritage and offering a perfect venue for a rest, away from the hustle and bustle of the city. Uhuru Gardens Memorial Park is located on Langata road, just after the Uchumi Hyper shopping centre. It borders Carnivore grounds to the left. The park has monuments, a fountain and lush garden that provide an ideal place for rest and meditation. On a weekday, you will notice a few people streaming into the park after lunch hours to enjoy the ambience, probably after a long day of work. During weekends, the park is turned into family ‘business'. Parents throng the spark with their children to enjoy fun activities in the lush fields. THE BEST PART... The best part is that it’s just  a 20 minute-drive from the CBD. The gardens are a major staple for corporate events in Nairobi. Safaricom Jazz Festival and Kenya peace concert are some of the events that have been held at the grounds.   Despite being situated next to the busy Langata road, the park is quiet , a rare characteristic for most recreational facilities in Nairobi. It is an ideal site for picnic lovers and adventurous people. The trees provide shades plus the well-bred grass offer can comfortable experience for people who want to have a rest. The park has provided seats for adorable beings who are allergic to grass. Planes landing at the nearby Wilson airport every five minutes provide an exhilarating experience for visitors. It is often a free show for children. Interestingly, some people have turned the site into a praying venue. Because of the vast grounds that the park offers, it is common to see men and women praying loudly under trees. The environment is also conducive for meditation and mind relaxation.   Injury gardens has a monument, fountain and a mugumo tree that offers a rich insight into Kenya’s history. A monument erected to commemorate the 20 th anniversary of Kenya’s independence stands stall at the park. The monument, unveiled by former president Daniel Moi, has a carving of people raising the flag of Kenya, a dove signifying peace, a heart signifying love, clasped hands signifying unity and a human sculpture signifying strength. Metres away stands a mugumo tree that was planted at the exact location of the Union jack, the flag of the colony of Kenya. A fountain that has now become obsolete was erected to celebrate 25 years of Uhuru (independence)”. It costs nothing to access the park if coming by public means, you will only avail an identification card at the gate. The entrance fee per car is Sh300. A miniature bar and hotel is also located at the park. For a little fee of none, you get to enjoy the ambience provided by the lush gardens, a taste of Kenya’s heritage and a free view of the nearby Wilson Airport and landing planes. 
 