HARARE Zimbabwe's veteran leader Robert Mugabe once quipped that he'd rule his country until he turned 100. But the 93-year-old's decades-long grip on power appears to be slipping with the streets filled with protesters calling for his removal and top party leaders abandoning him in droves. First heralded as a liberator who rid the former British colony Rhodesia of white minority rule, Robert Gabriel Mugabe was soon cast in the role of a despot who crushed political dissent and ruined the national economy. INDEPENDENCEAfter years behind bars as a political prisoner, Mugabe then led a bloody liberation war, which coupled with sanctions, forced the Rhodesian government to the negotiating table, with the country finally winning independence as Zimbabwe in 1980. In elections that year, Mugabe swept to power as prime minister, initially winning international plaudits for his policy of racial reconciliation and for extending improved education and health services to the black majority.  But his lustre faded quickly. DISSENT After his release from prison in 1974, Mugabe had taken over as head of the Zimbabwe African National Union (ZANU), which joined forces in the liberation struggle with Joshua Nkomo's Zimbabwe African People's Union (ZAPU). Nkomo was one of the early casualties of Mugabe's crackdown on dissent. In 1982, he was dismissed from government, where he held the home affairs portfolio, after the discovery of an arms cache in his Matabeleland stronghold. Mugabe, whose party drew most of its support from the ethnic Shona majority, then unleashed his North Korean-trained Fifth Brigade on Nkomo's Ndebele people in a campaign that left an estimated 20,000 people dead.  LAND REFORMSIt was the seizure of white-owned farms nearly two decades later that would complete Mugabe's transformation from darling of the West into international pariah — though his status as a liberation hero still resonates in many parts of Africa. Aimed largely at placating angry war veterans who threatened to destabilise his rule, the land reform policy wrecked the crucial agricultural sector, caused foreign investors to flee and helped plunge the country into economic misery. At the same time, critics say, Mugabe clung to power through increased repression of human rights and by rigging elections. "He was a great leader whose leadership degenerated to a level where he really brought Zimbabwe to its knees," University of South Africa professor Shadrack Gutto said. ANTI-WESTBritain's former foreign secretary Peter Carrington knew Mugabe well, having mediated the Lancaster House talks that paved the way for Zimbabwe's independence. "Mugabe wasn't human at all," Carrington told biographer Heidi Holland.  "There was a sort of reptilian quality about him. "You could admire his skills and intellect... but he was an awfully slippery sort of person." In the final decades of his rule, Mugabe — one of the world's most recognisable leaders with his thin stripe of moustache and thick-rimmed spectacles — has embraced his new role as the antagonist of the West. He used blistering rhetoric to blame his country's downward spiral on Western sanctions, though they were targeted personally at Mugabe and his henchmen rather than at Zimbabwe's economy. "If people say you are dictator... you know they are saying this merely to tarnish and demean your status, then you don't pay much attention," he said in a 2013 documentary. SUCCESSIONAfter decades in which the subject of succession was virtually taboo, a vicious struggle to take over after his death became apparent among the party elite as he reached his 90s and became visibly frail. He had been rumoured for years to have prostate cancer, but according to the official account, his frequent trips to Singapore were related to his treatment for cataracts. Mugabe's second wife Grace — his former secretary who is 41 years his junior and has been seen as a potential successor — boasted that even in his 80s he would rise before dawn to work out. "It's true I was dead. I resurrected as I always do once I get back to my country. I am real again," he joked in 2016 after returning from a foreign trip, mocking rumours that he had died. But in his later years, he has stumbled and fallen more than once and delivered the wrong speech at the opening of parliament last year. JAILED Born on February 21, 1924 into a Catholic family at Kutama Mission northwest of Harare, Mugabe was described as a loner, and a studious child known to carry a book even while tending cattle in the bush. After his carpenter father walked out on the family when he was 10, the young Mugabe concentrated on his studies, qualifying as a school teacher at the age of 17. An intellectual who initially embraced Marxism, he enrolled at Fort Hare University in South Africa, meeting many of southern Africa's future black nationalist leaders. After teaching in Ghana, where he was influenced by founder president Kwame Nkrumah, Mugabe returned to Rhodesia where he was detained for his nationalist activities in 1964 and spent the next 10 years in prison camps or jail. FUNERALDuring his incarceration, he gained three degrees through correspondence, but the years in prison left their mark. His four-year-old son by his first wife, Ghanaian-born Sally Francesca Hayfron, died while he was behind bars. Rhodesian leader Ian Smith denied him leave to attend the funeral. Years later, Mugabe had two sons and a daughter by second wife Grace.  GRACEThe ambition of the First Lady, who had been viewed as a front-runner to replace her husband, is widely seen by analysts as the catalyst for the military takeover as the army refused to accept her as Mugabe's successor. "His real obsession was not with personal wealth but with power," biographer Martin Meredith said. "Year after year Mugabe sustained his rule through violence and repression — crushing political opponents, violating the courts, trampling on property rights, suppressing the independent press and rigging elections." 
  
Demonstrators in Zimbabwe say they are "free at last".