Celebrations rang out across various parts of the country following the Supreme Court’s decision to uphold President Uhuru Kenyatta’s election.  Jubilee Party supporters poured into the streets, singing, dancing and waving twigs and flags after the court’s declaration.  Leaders, speaking separately, also asked opposition chief Raila Odinga to accept the verdict.  From Nyeri, Murang’a, Isiolo, Kirinyaga to Kiambu, roads were filled with jubilant supporters.    VIOLENCEMeru Governor Kiraitu Murungi, Nyeri’s Mutahi Kahiga and Kiambaa MP Paul Koinange and other leaders said the ruling will save the country from political uncertainty, adding that the court put into consideration public interest. “I urge President Uhuru Kenyatta to now move with speed and deal firmly with the lawlessness and violence being instigated by the opposition,” Mr Murungi said. Mr Kahiga said the President should be sworn in immediately.  Mr Koinange asked Mr Odinga to accept the verdict.  “This is not our win. It is the people’s win. The people of Kenya voted two times for President Kenyatta in one year,” Mr Koinange said.    Embu Governor Martin Wambora said President Kenyatta’s win had rejuvenated hope and termed petitions a waste of time and a stumbling block to development. Laikipia Governor Ndiritu Muriithi, who was attending a petition challenging his win, hailed the ruling, saying it would help the battered economy to recover. In Kiambu town, Jubilee supporters also conducted prayers to thank God for the victory.  “We are happy that finally, justice has prevailed. (Chief Justice David) Maraga has saved this country. He has proved that he has a heart for this country,” Mr Joseph Nyagah, a resident, said.   In Nakuru town, a section of residents — a number of them clad in Jubilee T-shirts — danced their way into the central business district in jubilation. Led by Governor Lee Kinyanjui and Nakuru East MP David Gikaria, the supporters then held a public rally outside Pinkam House on Kenyatta Avenue, expressing their delight at the decision.  Similar scenes were also witnessed in Nyahururu.  Transport on the busy Ol Kalou-Nyahururu-Nyeri road was, at some point, paralysed as excited residents marched.   UNITY Church leaders in Nyandarua County urged President Kenyatta to unite Kenyans.  “The President should serve all Kenyans equally whether they voted for him or not. We further ask the opposition to accept the Supreme Court’s judgment,” the clerics led by their chair, Bishop Josam Kariuki, said. In Naivasha, MP Jayne Kihara said the decision was an affirmation that President Kenyatta indeed won the August 8 elections.  She also called on the opposition to help the country move forward by accepting the verdict.    DEVELOPMENTNandi Governor Stephen Sang urged Kenyans to set aside their political differences while his Uasin Gishu colleague Jackson Mandago urged the opposition to respect the ruling.  In Baringo County, Governor Stanley Kiptis said Kenyans should now focus on development.  In Narok, however, there were no celebrations. Business went on as usual.  At the Coast, a number of Jubilee supporters, among them former deputy governor Hazel Katana, danced along Moi Avenue as they celebrated President Kenyatta’s win. Clad in red T-shirts and military gear, the supporters gathered at Uhuru Gardens near Mapembeni. “It is time to heal as a country. I urge President Kenyatta to dialogue with opposition leader Raila Odinga and forge unity. Let’s forgive each other,” Ms Katana said.    However, the situation was different in Bangladesh, with residents, the majority of whom support the opposition, going about their business.  “We are very disappointed with the court ruling that upheld President Kenyatta’s re-election but we are waiting for further direction from Baba (Mr Odinga),” a resident said. In Kwale, Governor Salim Mvurya urged Kenyans to focus on development.  “The decision should be respected. Let’s now support the President,” he said.  Council of Imams and Preachers of Kenya Organising Secretary Sheikh Mohammed Khalifa also urged the opposition to accept the verdict. However, county woman representative Zuleikha Juma said the Supreme Court’s decision will not change Nasa’s resolve to “liberate the country”. Reported by Philip Bwayo, Oscar Kakai, Stanley Kimuge, Titus Ominde, Florah Koech, Francis Mureithi, Steve Njuguna, Magdalene Wanja, Reitz Mureithi, Lamech Willy, Waikwa Maina George Sayagie, John Njoroge, Macharia Mwangi, Winnie Atieno, Brian Ocharo, Kazungu Samuel, Mohamed Ahmed, Fadhili Fredrick, Kalume Kazungu, Galgalo Bocha, George Munene, David Muchui, Isabel Githae, Nicholas Komu, Charles Wanyoro, Alex Njeru, Vivian Jebet and Ndungu Gachane 
  
Supreme Court unanimously dismisses two petitions against the president.