So there is a narrative emanating from circles close to the Foot Kenya Federation president Nick Mwendwa that I am on mission to ‘“finish” the man. According to this twisted logic, the only reason I wrote the hard hitting piece last week reminding old Nick that he needs to pack his earthly belongings and leave office was because I was serving some unspecified interests. This is pure balderdash. Yes, it is true I am serving some vested interests - the interests of those with with love of Kenyan football at heart.  This is something I have done over the years ever since I first went to the stadium in the early 1980s. Ask anyone close to me and they will tell you that my love for Kenyan football is total and undiluted.  ROOTING FOR ENGLISH TEAM That’s why you will never find me rooting for any English Premier League team. I watch Manchester United playing Arsenal with the same interest a starving mosquito gives a wall - not interested. My number one love is Gor Mahia although over the years I have also supported other local teams. I have had the chance to travel to far away places as England itself and Brazil via Columbia and some other places and one thing I realised about these countries is the passion with which they support their own teams. Those big names we read about in the newspapers and which we channel surf looking for on our television screens became what they are because of the sheer sweat of the brow and moving up by the strap of their boots - literally. I am sure once in a while those teams had to face a Nick Mwendwa or two - people who had nothing to offer the development of football in their respective countries but engaging in a lot of TV appearances with the sole purpose of self-preservation and perpetuation. When I wrote my article last week it was just but a reminder to Nick Mwendwa of the promise he made us a few months back that he would resign if the Chan competition was not held on Kenyan soil.  If the good man- and his support base might have forgotten, this is the verbatim promise our worthy president made us: “Two things are certain, we are hosting Chan and I will not be resigning, but should the unexpected happen, I will step down.” Clearly I am not the one who said these words but “his excellency” the FKF president himself. I am told by those close to the federation that by me asking Mwendwa to resign I am like a man whistling in the wind- that the Chan debacle cannot be blamed on Mwendwa alone. And I ask, if not him, who else? 
 