Police have been deployed outside Dagoretti North MP Simba Arati’s home in Kileleshwa, Nairobi. Four officers, in a Subaru, camped at the residence located on Tebere Crescent off Kangundo Road since midnight while three others, in an armoured personnel carrier, arrived at 6.30am. SEARCH Mr Arati, who is a staunch supporter of the National Super Alliance (Nasa) and its leader Raila Odinga, told the Nation that the officers were searching all vehicles entering and leaving his home. “They can see my cars inside and so they know I’m inside,” said Mr Arati. The MP said he was in the dark on the reasoning behind the siege but guessed it could be because of his role in the organisation of the Nasa rally at Jacaranda. “I am the mobiliser for Jacaranda meeting so I think this is related. They know if my supporters learn of the siege there will be a problem so that’s why they have brought the armoured car.”   Nasa has organised a memorial at Jacaranda grounds in Embakasi to remember victims of police brutality during the electioneering period. Nairobi county police commander Japhet Koome, however, denied deploying any police officers to Mr Arati’s home. “I’m not aware of any operation in the home,” Mr Koome said. KOOME On Sunday, Mr Koome denied knowledge of the Nasa event and, a day later, vowed not to allow it, saying the only major public event that would take place in Nairobi would be President Kenyatta's swearing-in. But Nasa co-principal Moses Wetangula on Monday dismissed Mr Koome's claims. “We are planning prayers for our supporters who were shot dead during protests. We will also fundraise for the victims’ families so that they can hold a befitting send-off for their loved ones,” he said. The Jacaranda meeting was a culmination of a series of memorial services held in other parts of the country. Nasa claims that 54 people have been killed by police between November 17 and 21. The figure, according to the coalition, includes 18 who were killed on November 17 as police tried to block supporters from accessing Uhuru Park for a public rally. They were welcoming Mr Odinga from a 10-day US tour. More follows.   Officers throw teargas everywhere, including estates.