Football Kenya Federation (FKF) president Nick Mwendwa’s grip on power could be tightened Saturday when the federation holds its Annual General Meeting. All the 78 delegates affiliated to FKF converge on Mombasa this morning for day-long deliberations. Among the key things on the agenda of the meeting is the adoption of a new constitution that could hand Mwendwa a chance to lead FKF for upto 12 years (until 2028). However, the proposal to increase the term limit of FKF president from the current two terms (of four years each) to three is at variance with the Sports Act which stipulates that any elected leader of a local sports body or institution should lead for upto eight years. “We introduced Sports Act to bring harmony in management of sports federations and to do away with life presidents. Federations are autonomous bodies but must work in tandem with the Kenyan law for smooth operations,” former Sports Minister Ababu Namwamba told Nation Sport this week. All eyes will be trained at the football delegates who comprise of all the 18 Kenya Premier League club chairmen, 10 National Super League bosses, alongside representatives from all the 20 branches countrywide, plus officials affiliated to the referees, football fans and Kenya Women Premier League clubs.  It remains to be seen whether KPL and NSL representatives will attend the meeting as it coincides with final league matches of the season. KEY PROPOSALS Article 3. 1): FKF is neutral in matters of politics and religion  Article 14. 4) Members that don’t participate in FKF’s sporting activities for two consecutive years shall be suspended at the General Assembly and their representatives shall not be elected or appointed until they have fulfilled their obligations in this respect.  Article 26. 1) Elections shall be conducted by secret ballot, unless the number of candidates is equal to the number of vacancies. Then the election may be conducted by acclamation. Article 41. 1) The President represents FKF legally. He is FKF’s spokesman, legal representative and chief delegate. 41.4) Only the President may propose the appointment or dismissal of FKF’s General Secretary. 41.8) If the position of the President becomes vacant, the Vice President shall take over the position of the President until the next elective Assembly.  Article 42.1) The President shall be elected by the General Assembly for a period of four years. His mandate shall begin after the end of the General Assembly which has elected him. 2) A President stays in office until a new President is elected. 3) A President may be re-elected for a further two (2) terms of office.   Article 22. d: Increase number of branches (from current 22) to 48, each representing 47 Counties, while Nairobi will be split into 2. 
 