Q. I am an online freelance writer. Recently, my mother, an interior designer, started a blog and requested that I contribute one blog post a day. I was okay with that until she later increased this to three blog posts a day, which require a lot of research work. Because of this, I am days late with a client’s project. Is it fair if I start charging her for my services or do I request her to recruit a freelance writer?  I am sure your mother means well, and perhaps has no idea how her demands may be affecting your work. Not all startups generate income right away, so demanding pay now may discourage her, however, it is important that your work, which generates your pay, does not get compromised. My advice is that you and your mother discuss this matter and reach a reasonable agreement. First, quantify the hours you require to do your job. Out of your free time, decide how much time you would be willing to volunteer and let her know. This means telling her, with good reason, that you can only manage one post a day, or a week, whichever works for you. What strategy is she using to manage her blog? How many articles does she aim to post per day? To determine this, she could start by reviewing feedback from previous posts to see who is reading and bringing traffic to her website. This will guide her on optimal blogs per day. You could also request that she gives you credit for your work and recognise you as a contributor in her blog; this enriches your work references. If this arrangement does not work, discuss a payment structure to motivate you to provide quality work. Your mum knows how you earn a living, so asking her to pay for your skills, time and effort is not unreasonable. You could suggest a commission-based payment arrangement, where you are paid on reach to motivate you to produce superior work. If all this does not work, asking her to recruit a part-time blogger is equally reasonable. This may be a better solution to be sure she has someone that is fully dedicated. Do not allow yourself to be exploited to an extent where you lose your daily income, but be considerate if you are still living under her roof and enjoying hospitality that includes free boarding, food, cleaning and other utilities. This could be your way of paying back, but it has to be within reasonable limits.  