The saying “Let’s see how this election will go”, has been termed as the Kenyan “proverb” of the year. It is the response that many Kenyans in search of various opportunities have received this year. The entire economy has been in a wait and see mode and the showbiz industry is no exception. On a typical year, the industry begins with a very slow January followed by an upsurge in some sectors over the Valentine’s period in February. This steady rise picks up in April before slowing a little bit in the cold months of June and July. From August to the end of the year the industry is often in full gear with November and December being the busiest. This year however the prolonged electioneering period has thrown that cycle in total disarray. It’s been a year of cancelled gigs, noncommittal sponsors and very low earnings for everyone. Just last week the highly anticipated African Nouveau festival scheduled for November 10-12 was postponed to early 2018. The festival is an off shoot of the Blankets and Wines festival, the annual festival brings both legendary and fairly new acts from all over Africa on one stage. The picnic style festival is a 2-day duration of music, film, fashion, design, art and technology, food and style. The past event featured an impressive lineup of artists including Boddhi Satva, South African collective Fantasma, the Ghanaian artsy songstress Jojo Abot and Nairobi’s very own Muthoni the Drummer Queen and Just A Band. In a statement to news rooms the organisers said: “We feel it is best to move Africa Nouveau clear off the election period. We are currently working hard to secure new dates for early 2018 and you will be first to be advised when this is done. In the meantime, we kindly request you to put on hold plans regarding the festival as we wait for the new dates. Thank you again for your commitment and support towards Africa Nouveau Festival.” Coming as one among many cancellations, the ripple effect is being felt across the industry. It means the 20 artistes and their bands who had been booked for this show have lost another payday. Equally, the entire concert ecosystem of event technology suppliers, PR practitioners and ticket selling companies have lost business. In the same measure, club owners have also not had a very good year. Boyo Cheptoek is a communication expert who promotes high-end clubs in Nairobi. She attests that the club scene has seen a very quiet year, though the first quarter was decent, things have since gone downhill. “In the first week of August we saw the worst turn out ever recorded. The party weekend typically begins on Wednesday and goes all through to Sunday. Unfortunately the election was on a Tuesday and with the uncertainty that surrounded the announcing of results, no one was venturing out,” she says. The effects of political tension are felt across all market segments. Violence and protests within the slums and low income areas often make them a no-go zone. Patrons from those areas fear leaving their house unattended or venturing out into the unknown. Although the upscale neighbourhoods’ rarely see violence, patrons from those areas still don’t go out because they fear bumping into protesting crowds who will either destroy their cars or rob them. As a result, clubs for the most part of the year have experienced empty tables and deserted dance floors. “After the initial election, things started to pick up but the Maraga ruling took us back to the standstill,” she admits. “The ruling came on a Friday which is typically a big party night so it killed the party vibes. Although things are beginning to look up, people are still waiting to see what will happen. If we don’t get a final decision by mid-November I don’t think we will recover this year,” The dark and gloomy times have also had a silver lining for those who saw it coming and positioned themselves. Some strategic players in the industry focused their energies on regional and international gigs. Artistes and celebs who have diversified their market beyond Kenya were able to reap big from alternative sources of revenues. As the old Chinese saying goes, “In the midst of chaos there is also opportunity. DJ Joe Mfalme is one of those visionaries who saw it coming and prepared for the dry spells. With a staff that he needs to pay and a growing business concern to keep afloat, DJ Joe has had to be strategic. “I’m afraid of poverty man, which is why I work so hard. In my strategic plan I always have a redundancy so when one area of the industry is slow I am earning from another. Corporates took a dip at some point especially around the election dates, but they picked up later on. My fallback position was the clubs and private events, they have kept me going,” he admits. As far as release of music, DJ Joe admits that some artistes have kept releasing music while others have maintained a wait and see approach. The youthful market especially has grown weary of the political situation and are looking for a distraction. As such, artistes who took the bold move to release content got a very good reception. As we go into the final stretch of the year the industry is optimistic of seeing the elusive light at the end of the tunnel. Corporates are starting to get back into the game and stalled projects are finally getting off the shelves. Patrick Githinji is a communication consultant with a leading PR firm in Nairobi and has seen first-hand the effect of the political session on the spending habits of corporates. “The election period is a perfect storm for the activation business; it totally cripples it,” he explained. “First the political rallies book the venues that we normally use, then university closures due to either student or lecture strikes rob us of audience for our events. To make it worse the public mood is not very conducive for any marketing initiatives so most companies hold back,” Things are however beginning to look up, he confirms that next week Tusker Cider is celebrating its one year anniversary and plans are in top gear. Like Martin Lurther King Jr we dream of a day when elections will be just another event in our national calendar. Until then we are forced to contend with a divisive, unproductive and unpredictable electioneering period that often brings out the worst in us.  