The five-month industrial crisis in public health institutions finally ended this week after the government and county authorities signed a deal with the nurses’ union for a higher pay package. It brings to an end an intractable and bitter contest that grounded the public health system. Prior to the nurses’ strike, doctors had downed their tools for three months. CRISIS Collectively, the public health system has walked from one crisis to another for the better part of the year. Yet the cost of strikes by health workers is tragic. Many lives have been lost, while many survivors are paralysed or left with scars for life. Public health remains the only recourse for majority of the population, who cannot afford treatment in private medical institutions. Access to quality and affordable health is a fundamental right. Under the Constitution, provision of health services is shared between the national and county governments; the former formulating policies and managing referral hospitals — Kenyatta and Moi Referral — while the latter is mandated to manage all other medical facilities under their jurisdictions. This dichotomy has had its fair share of perils and explains the crisis that has afflicted the entire sector. STRUGGLE Although the provision of medical services has been delegated to counties, the national government has never provided commensurate funding to support that function. By themselves, the counties have not organised in a manner that sufficiently enables them to manage the complex health system. So at one level, there is conflict between the national and county governments on health resourcing and management; and at another, struggle within counties to deliver quality medical care due to lack of capacity. With the deal signed, nurses should get back to work and help rebuild a punctured sector. Crucial lessons have been learnt. Legal and policy frameworks that govern public health services are fraught with pitfalls and require urgent fixing. The national and county governments ought to change how to handle strikes to avoid long drawn out industrial disputes. Let the national and county governments honour the deal and settle the matter once and for all. Vitally important, nurses and doctors have to provide quality service to justify higher pay.  