Africa is staring at another political crisis as the military takes over power in Zimbabwe. The 93-year-old President Robert Mugabe has technically been ousted, with his key allies seized by the military. It is just a matter of time before the transition is completed. The writing has been on the wall for President Mugabe, but the last straw was the sacking of Vice-President Emmerson Mnangagwa, a fellow liberation struggle veteran. It is the consequence of hubris and power blindness. President Mugabe’s time was over but he failed to manage his transition, instead foisting his wife Grace to succeed him. POLITICS It is unfortunate that Africa is going back to the era of military take-overs, a legacy the continent had put behind as it embraced competitive politics. With the end of the cold war in the late 1980s, and subsequent emergence of the unipolar superpower, there was political climate change globally and Africa, in particular. Erstwhile African autocrats were forced into competitive politics characterised by regular multiparty elections and presidential term limits. But Zimbabwe has stood out like a sore thumb. As the continent was leapfrogging into a new era, President Mugabe entrenched authoritarian rule. He dismantled all forms of opposition, emasculated democracy and appropriated State power unto himself. Elections were a charade and the presidency a life-long business. HYPER- INFLATION Once a bread basket, Zimbabwe is today a basket case. President Mugabe wrecked agriculture by instigating forceful evictions of large-scale farmers and ranchers in favour of war veterans and political acolytes. He presided over the horrendous decline of the economy, devaluating currency and triggering hyper-inflation. Military take-overs have never been a solution to political crisis, which is why we call for the quick return of power to the civilians through the ballot. Zimbabweans deserve new leadership determined through a democratic process, and not barrel of the gun. But the poignant lesson is that time is up for African despots and those who seek to cling to power for life.  