Zimbabwe has been under military control for the last 24 hours after the defence forces put President Robert Mugabe under house arrest on Wednesday. The South African nation is now stuck in political limbo amid talks to find a way out of the crisis. This is what we know so far: Where are Robert and Grace Mugabe? The veteran leader who has ruled Zimbabwe for 37 years spent the better part of the Thursday under house arrest in the capital Harare for the following his detention on Wednesday. In the evening, reports say, he was moved to State House for talks with military chiefs on the way out of the political stalemate. However, the whereabouts of his wife Grace, who was keen to succeed him in 2018, is unknown. The mystery of her whereabouts deepened on Thursday morning after Namibia denied media reports that she had run to Windhoek. Namibia's Deputy Prime Minister Netumbo Nandi-Ndaitwah said the information they had was that first lady was still in Harare. “There is no truth in that,” the Swapo vice-presidential candidate told the state-owned New Era newspaper. “I have not received any such information- what we have been informed is that the first lady and the family are safe at their home.” The Reuters quotes sources as saying Mrs Mugabe is being held at the her private residence in the capital, known as "Blue Roof". What next? Talks are under way at State House, Harare, to help resolve the political crisis precipitated by the military takeover of the Zimbabwe government. Attending the deliberations are army chiefs and Mr Mugabe. The talks are being led by senior church leaders and envoys sent from the Southern African Development Community (SADC) and the neighbouring South Africa. Reuters reports that a Catholic priest with close ties to the Mugabes, Father Fidelis Mukonori, is involved with negotiations. South African Defence Minister Nosiviwe Maphisa-Nqakula and State Security Minister Bongani Bongo, who were sent by President Jacob Zuma, arrived the Zimbabwe capital on Wednesday night. Besides sending mediators to Harare, SADC was scheduled to hold emergency talks on the crisis in Botswana later on Thursday. South Africa's Times Live, quoting an intelligence source, reports that the talks are sticky, with Mr Mugabe insisting that he remains Zimbabwe's only legitimate ruler. Zimbabwean media mogul Trevor Ncube, in Twitter posts, confirmed the presence of Father Mukonori and said there were three sticky issues in the talks:  How to reinstate Emmerson Mnangagwa and by pass the other VP (Phelekezela) Mphoko.  President Mugabe insists he is legitimate head of state and military must first concede their actions are illegal. Will military grant safe passage to his wife and family once this hurdle is dealt with? Military wants Mnangagwa reinstated in Zanu-PF and government. What are the legal and constitutional considerations to this demand? There are indications that Zimbabwe's fragmented opposition— which has not openly condemned the military takeover of government— may join the new government. According to The Guardian, one high-profile opposition leader said there was “a lot of talking going on”, with the army “reaching out to different factions to discuss the formation of a transitional government. Movement for Democratic Change (MDC), the main opposition party, on Thursday told BBC’s Newsday programme that it may join the new administration but on conditions. “The MDC, if it were to take that route, will insist on a few things: Withdraw the mistakes that were made during the government of national unity [2009-2013] which was not a genuine power-sharing agreement,” secretary-general Douglas Mwonzora said. Mr Morgan Tsvangirai, the MDC leader and long-time rival of Mr Mugabe, arrived in Harare from Johannesburg on Wednesday night, and local reports indicate his party is eyeing either the prime minister or vice president post. Separately, Mr Tendai Biti, an opposition leader and former Finance minister, called for a transitional authority to take over.  On Thursday, he told Reuters that he was willing join Mr Tsvangirai in the transitional government. “If Morgan says he’s in, I‘m in,” he said. “The country needs a solid pair of hands so one might not have a choice.”  How is the situation in Harare? Sources tell the Nation the Zimbabwean capital is calm but tension is high as residents ponder the next steps the military may take. Heavily armed soldiers are still calling the shots, with troops deploying to the main airport, the state broadcaster, government offices, Parliament, Zanu-PF offices and other key installations. The rest of the country is calm and peaceful. 
  
It has been established that the military had overseen the arrest of at least three pro-Mugabe ministers.