Aidah Binale-Ebrahim is the executive director of Umande Trust. Umande Trust is an organisation based in Nairobi (Kibera) with offices in Kisumu, that focuses on good governance, advocacy, water, sanitation, environment and biogas. Umande’s uniqueness lies in mobilising communities, applying their skills and linking them with formal institutions. Their focus areas are in schools, informal settlements and market areas. Aidah studied surveying and geospatial engineering, later switching to Community Development.  What aspects of your first job made you want to shift from what you originally trained in to community development? First was being away from family for long periods, followed by challenges in the field, such as lack of proper services including toilets, showers and water. This opened my eyes to the fact that some Kenyans do not have the privilege of enjoying basic services that the rest of Kenyans have access to. I wanted to contribute to this development, and started looking for an organisation that has community development at heart. When I learnt of Umande, I applied for a job and got it.  Did you have doubts when you were switching your careers? I did not have any doubts since I had practiced what I did in university through two contractual jobs; I had to stay out in the field doing survey, traversing the whole of Western Kenya. I faced many challenges, and I had to decide fast whether this is a career I wanted to be in for the rest of my life. I had also stayed in university for more than five years because of two lecturers’ strikes, which really messed up my life’s plan. I also consulted my parents, especially my mum, who opened up my eyes to what I needed to consider before I made the decision. My late father was not happy with my decision because he had hoped I would follow in his footsteps.  Would you say you made a mistake when  initially choosing your university degree course? In retrospect, what should you have considered when choosing a course? I was initially selected to study woodwork at the university, but I did not want to because I already knew I loved accounting. My dad however did not support this; he preferred courses that were lucrative, and Geomatics Engineering was the new course in town. I came to love the course after sometime and made sure I did my best. Some of the factors one needs to consider when choosing a course are passion and the opportunities that a course could provide after graduation.  What do you think is the most common misconception about NGOs in Kenya? Why is this so? One big reason is that most NGOs are formed by briefcase musketeers; they pretend they have the publics’ interests at heart but in reality, they do not. NGOs are meant to complement government efforts and protect underserved people from exploitation. Government sometimes feel like NGOs want to replace them, though this is not the case because what they do is question the government to keep ot on its toes and empower civilians to demand for their rights.  Are there opportunities for young people at Umande Trust? How do you draw them in? There are many opportunities for young people here because Umande thrives on innovation. We have partnerships with various universities from within the country and abroad to give young learners a chance to relate paper or classwork with practice. We have opportunities for community development, sociologists, bio-systems engineers, web designers, bloggers, civil/structural engineers and volunteers. We have a team of 35 people, and 70 per cent are young people.  What does your job entail? I am the team leader, and I report to a board of five in which I am the secretary. I am the liaison between the board and the organisation. My responsibility is to give direction to the Trust team, manage day to day activities such as fundraising, program development, and strategic partnership and manage donor relationships.  What are some of the skills that are necessary to succeed at a career in community development? The best skill is to be open-minded, to always think out of the box, and place yourself in the other person’s shoe as you look for solutions. You also need to be a people person, very dynamic and deal with the situations as they come. Community development has no routine, there is always something new happening and that is what makes this job fun.  What advice would you offer students of community development regarding how best to recognise/ get/prepare for opportunities in the field? They need to be as practical as possible. With community development, the situation can never be the same or copied and pasted. The students need to identify organisations like ours that work directly with communities  to acquire practical skills in the field. This also needs passion because without, one can never achieve much. How would you say your education in survey and geospatial engineering prepared you for your job today? My first job entailed field work and talking to people, especially those who did not even understand Kiswahili or English and sometimes, I would need a translator. I grew from a project officer, learning through to my level now. I feel that Umande Trust and my mentors within gave me a chance to grow professionally and exposed me to a vast experience.  What was the craziest thing that you did as a university student? What were the lessons? Not stepping into a development studies class for a whole semester. All that year’s students were to attend the class together. We were over 2, 000 in the class and the lecturer would dictate notes with no microphone. After missing a seat for two consecutive sessions, I decided not to attend any other class. I would later borrow a friend’s notes and photocopy them, then go through them just before the exams. I managed to score a clean A in that paper. The major lesson I learnt is that if you have the will and interest, you can achieve what you want in life.  What was your favourite thing about your university? Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology was good in technology. Interestingly, one had friends from all, if not most of the courses in technology. Due to this, I have numerous contacts in different sectors and different countries. Also, in JKUAT, you would get fresh products from the College of Agriculture; yoghurts and cakes were my favourites.  