Hail the Mighty Gor Mahia! I can repeat that for as many times as I want because we are the champions of the Kenyan Premier League. The coronation (or is it “Goronation”) of K’Ogalo at the lakeside city of Kisumu on Saturday was a perfect way to end a season that has been dogged by so much ups and downs from the walking out of SuperSport to the selfish insistence by Football Kenya Federation boss Nick Mwendwa to increase the number of teams to 18. Then Brazillian coach Jose Marcello Ferreira walked out on us midway through the season creating a mini turmoil at the club.  But the coming of Dylan Kerr to take over brought in some fresh impetus as we went on to win our 16th title and fourth in five years. Which raises some interesting question. Are we in our own league or are the other teams mere participants in our league. Sample this: in 2012, we finished second losing out on the title on the final day courtesy of a one-all draw with Thika United. Had we won the game, we would have won the league. We won the title in 2013, 2014 and 2015. In 2016, FKF decided to snatch three points from us. We ended up finishing second to Tusker with a difference of only three points.  Had we not been snatched off the points we would have won the 2016 title. Add that to the 2017 success and you realise we would have actually been champions since 2012 to date. But that aside, it’s important to thank all those who have contributed to our success this year.  Chairman Ambrose Dickson Rachier (Ador), you stand out as the most successful Gor Mahia chairman. You have given your all, including sacrificing your own income to rebuild this team which was once headed to the grave. I also extend the recognition to your entire executive. The players have been key to the team’s success. They have trained hard and remained focused and disciplined even during the hardest times. We never hear of the players shouting over unpaid allowances or delayed salaries thought it has happened several times. The coaching staff from Dylan Kerr, his assistant Zedekiah Otieno, “Onyango” the team trainer, the medical staff and Omosh the kits manager, you have done well. Finally, the Green Army,  the never tiring supporters of Gor Mahia who coined one great verse -Jaloyo Ng’amaloyi onge, k’Ogalo Jaloyo, Ng’amaloyi Onge (simply put, our champions, you have no equal). But above all, I thank God for Gor Mahia, the club that defines joy and happiness to us all. The club that had brought pride to all Kenyans including our noisy neighbours who still call themselves giants who are still waiting for a league title two decades on. May God bless Gor Mahia and bring more success to this great club. We are the Mighty Gor Mahia! 
 