A delightful, heavenly-smelling blend of exotic shrubs and flowers usher me into Rhino Watch Resort. The reception is African themed, impressive and elegant, some carved table, prints of wildlife and landscape and wine casks are neatly arranged on a rack against the wall. I can’t help but notice that the place looks clean to the point of sterility! ACCOMMODATION A concrete paved path winds through meadows to the tented camps. That night the air had a honeysuckle and mint fragrance. The room was huge and didn't look like a hotel room at all. It was more like a guest suite in an Italian palace. The bed was king-sized with pure white cotton sheets and ballooning pillows. A perfect ‘chocolate on the pillow' hotel.   The baths are built of stone, offering a comfortable shower, a washstand and a toilet.A bulb veiled behind a shade bathed the room with ivory. In front of the veranda is a blooming a flower garden. All their tents have been tastefully decorated in African-themes designs. BREAKFAST Morning dawned. When I walked into the serving room at the resort, Chacha the Chef was there with a big smile. Breakfast was served. And oh, it was a breakfast for kings! One section had African breakfast comprising of bread and tea, coffee, chips, eggs, cookies, chocolate cakes, samosa and mandazi. Another section had continental breakfast while the other a traditional English breakfast. The bread and cookies were delicious! I felt the calling for the tenth time and when the rest came they were stared by an empty bowl.   RHINO HILL SWIMMING POOL The resort has a doughnut-shaped, lavender swimming pool glistening below the foot of Rhino hill. Theincredible outdoor pool has picturesque views of Mt Kenya and provides a quality relaxation. It provides ultimate privacy to relax and enjoy the sun.   SUSTAINABLE TOURISM The resort, a five leaf lodge is a leader in sustainable tourism. According to the director Ms Kendi Wirth, the  resort  has partnered  with  Plants for  the  planet  campaign to  plant  one million trees  worldwide.  Maisha, her 10-year-old daughter, is an ambassador for the campaign and has led a campaign to plants trees around schools around Mweiga. “Since 2010 we have planted around 5000 trees,” she says.   ”All the personnel working in the   lodge are sourced from neighbourhood and trained on hospitality and eco-sensibility. We also recycle water used in the bathrooms and kitchen to water the plants,” adds Kendi. Their website has information on the rates for residents and non-presidents which range from 135USD to 320 USD per night. Rhino Watch Resort is tucked at the foot of Rhino hill five kilometres after Mweiga town left turn off the Nyeri –Nyahururu road.   
 