Jubilee Party loyalists in Nyanza are warming up for State appointments after President Uhuru Kenyatta’s re-election in the repeat poll. The Jubilee loyalists include political candidates and officials who steered the party’s campaigns in the region ahead of the August 8 General Election. But in the repeat October 26 election, there was little activity by the party in the region, which boycotted the poll. Campaigns for President Kenyatta in the run-up to the August 8 elections was headed by former Karachuonyo MP James Rege. REPEAT POLL The engineer told the Nation on Saturday that President Kenyatta would ensure that development projects were initiated in Nyanza despite the region not participating in the repeat poll. “President Kenyatta will steer clear of politics and focus on developing all parts of the country, irrespective of who voted for him or did not,” said Mr Rege. Mr Rege defected from Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) ahead of the elections but chose not to defend his seat, opting to mobilise votes for the President in a region perceived to be an opposition stronghold.  He is poised to land a position in the Kenyatta Cabinet, with talk rife that the telecommunications engineer may head the ICT docket owing to his experience in the field. A party insider told the Nation that among those expected to get State jobs are politicians from the region who unsuccessfully vied for seats. LUO COMMUNITY “President Kenyatta is committed to demonstrating to the Luo community that he has nothing personal against them,” said the source.  “His personal agenda is to end the political rifts among communities through development and reconciliation.” Separately, central Nyanza Jubilee official Steve Mwanga on Sunday said: “We shall spur economic growth in the region through political appointments we are expecting from the government.” Mr Mwanga was instrumental in ensuring that the party made inroads in central Nyanza despite opposition.  He is best remembered for having given Siaya Senator James Orengo a run for his money in the battle for Ugenya MP seat in 2007, compelling Nasa leader Raila Odinga to intervene. Former Homa Bay Jubilee gubernatorial candidate Tom Alila and his running mate Michael Ogolla are also said to be eyeing State jobs. Mr Ogolla however downplayed the reports. 
 