The Kenya Animal Health Network is a new outfit bringing together various livestock specialists. Dr HARRY OYAS, the Deputy Director at the Directorate of Veterinary Services, Kabete, and the interim chairman spoke to FRANCIS MUREITHI on why the network is an important addition in the industry. There are so many groupings in the livestock sector, what makes the Kenya Animal Health Network (KAHN) different and what should farmers expect from it? KAHN’s work is mainly to foster better and faster exchange of information, especially on diseases, feeds and vaccines, among others. Farmers will, therefore, get synchronised information on livestock production and health care. The network brings together people who have a stake in the livestock industry such as research institutions, private veterinarians, government, producers, vaccine developers, drug merchants, breeders of semen, importer of good and services  used in the industry, leather exporters, meat exporters and animal welfare groups who collaborate for the betterment of livestock farmers. What is the role of this network? The main role is to provide a platform for information sharing, collaboration and improvement of real time service delivery to livestock farmers across the country. We have over 40 member organisations in the network. We shall work with veterinary officers at the grassroots and since agriculture is a devolved unit, our network will collaborate with executives in-charge of the agriculture dockets at the counties to ensure farmers access our services. Besides our network will also work with service providers and agrovets and agro-chemical providers who are our members. Besides diseases, what are major livestock production constraints? Management is a key issue in livestock production as most farmers do know how to take care of their animals for higher yields. Lack of access to quality feeds is another headache to livestock farmers. Why do livestock diseases remain major challenge despite years of research? There are so many factors that lead to livestock diseases, one which is by design as we are in the tropics. Most of the diseases causing agents are found in the tropics. Pests, viruses and bacteria are comfortable in this zone. Our production system is affected by the movement of animals in the semi-arid and arid areas in search of pasture and water. The severe drought is another challenge which has forced pastoralists migrate and in the process encounter diseases which attack their animals such as foot and mouth. Farmers should work with animal health service providers as they know which diseases are common in their locations. A disease in Kwale or Busia may affect the animals differently and to prevent such diseases from spreading, livestock farmers should work closely with the experts at the grassroots. Animal diseases have no boundaries and we have to work with our neighbours to combat these diseases.   When Simion ole Poror told his family and relatives in 2001 that he was going to sell his 200 cows and goats to buy three exotic dairy cows, many of them thought he was out of his senses.