Preparations are in top gear for next month’s official launch of phase one of the Sh1 billion Bukhungu Stadium in Kakamega County. The upgrading of the facility is being carried out in three phases. Already, more than Sh399 million has been spent. FINAL TOUCHES Workers are putting final touches on the dais. The stadium will host the Council of East and Central Africa (Cecafa) tournament matches slated for December 3-17. Mr Titus Otiende, the stadium manager, said workers at the facility are working 24-hours to ensure they are ready for the high-profile regional soccer tournament. “We are currently putting final touches to several areas to comply with the requirements set by Cecafa and FKF and we are committed to deliver it,” he said. WORKS Already 2,000 seats have been fitted and works done on the self-contained VIP lounge, dressing rooms and referee rooms. The field is also being upgraded and new goal posts are being erected. Speaking after inspecting the stadium, Governor Wycliffe Oparanya said they intend to upgrade the facility to international standards. The second phase for the upgrade is expected to begin immediately after the Cecafa tournament. UPGRADE Once completed, the facility would be able to host a capacity of 30,000 people and it would have automated gates to enhance revenue collection for the county government. Mr Oparanya said his administration has prioritised sports in order to keep the youth busy. The facility will also host indoor sporting events. “The stadium will be a great boost to the economy of the county given that opportunities to host such international events attract many people,” he said. STANDARDS Last month, Football Kenya Federation president Nick Mwendwa inspected the stadium. He promised to work with the Kakamega County Government to ensure the playing turf, security requirements and sound system, among other things, conform to the standards of the Confederation of African Football. Apart from Bukhungu, Mumias Complex and Moi Kisumu stadiums will also host some games in the Cecafa tournament. 
 