Former Meru Governor Peter Munya has signalled his intention to withdraw a petition he filed against his successor Kiraitu Murungi following President Uhuru Kenyatta’s advice. The former county boss, through lawyer Martin Gitonga, on Monday asked judge Francis Gikonyo of the Meru High Court to postpone the hearing of the case until December 4. The postponement, the lawyer said, was to allow the ex-governor to file a notice of withdrawal of the case.  “We will not be able to proceed today because the court has two rulings to make and we are also seeking leave to file a formal application,” Mr Gitonga told the judge. GOVERNMENT POSITIONJustice Gikonyo was to rule on additional documents the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) wanted to introduce in the case. The respondents — the IEBC, Meru county returning officer Gichichi Macharia and Governor Murungi — did not object to the adjournment. Speaking after the hearing, Mr Munya said continuing with the matter was no longer tenable after President Kenyatta offered him a job in the national government. Mr Munya said he would review his plans to run for the presidency in 2022 if he is appointed to the government.  PNU He added that he would relinquish his position as the Party of National Unity leader once appointed.  “Depending on the job I am given, I may have to hand over my party position to others.  "With the President and his deputy being my new bosses, certain things may have to change. Once I know where I will serve, I will make my decision on my future in politics,” he said. UNITYHe said he had agreed with President Kenyatta on the job offer “despite having a solid case”. “When we met the President with Mr Murungi, he made it clear that he wanted us to work together.  "He said he wanted me to work with him in the national government while Mr Murungi concentrates on Meru.” Governor Murungi, for his part, said he was happy his predecessor had decided to drop the case.  He added that the move would enable him to work and unite Meru residents. 
  
Mr Munya had sought orders for safeguarding of the ballot boxes.