Journalists face many risks. One that is becoming common is harassment or aggression. Harassment, which takes many forms of hostility, often ends up in aggression or assault, meant to physically hurt the journalist. This is what happened on Tuesday when Citizen TV senior reporter Francis Gachuri and NTV camerawoman Jane Gatwiri were assaulted while covering a Nasa function. Assault is supposed to achieve one aim: To suppress freedom of the press or push for a particular editorial stance or agenda. How should journalists cope with such harassment? There are many ways, including simply tolerating and enduring the aggression but this is not a realistic option because of the dangers involved. No life is worth a story. SUE FOR PEACE Another is to sue for peace, accept whatever apologies are offered, and move on, hoping it won’t happen again. But this is hoping against hope. Yet another coping mechanism, and this is the most popular, is to avoid the aggressor, or those situations that bring about aggression. This is what Editors Guild chairman Linus Kaikai and KUJ secretary-general Eric Oduor meant when they threatened to stop sending journalists to functions where they are in danger. This is a euphemism for a media blackout. But is it in the public interest to give the blackout to newsmakers who harass journalists? The best answer to that question should come from you, the news consumer. EDITORIAL BIASWhen can a complainant be said to be a Jubilee or Nasa sympathiser? When can a reader complaining about editorial bias be said to be a Jubilee or Nasa sympathiser, let alone a card-carrying supporter? Never, I would say, unless one specifically identifies with the party as a supporter, advocate, backer, well-wisher, partisan or fellow traveller. In theory, at any rate, a complaint on editorial bias can be pure, based on detached observation and research. One does not have to be a party sympathiser or supporter to spot or identify bias against a party. I, therefore, apologise to Prof Caxton Muune for the impression created in my article last Friday that he is a Jubilee supporter because he had complained about editorial bias against the police and the government. PARTISAN In my article, ‘The media had an especially challenging role in covering elections’, there was this sentence:  “Editors say when both sides of a political divide accuse them of bias then it is proof positive they’re doing a good job, that is, they do not favour one side.” Prof Muune, whose complaints accusing NMG of bias I had ventilated in an earlier article, latched onto that sentence to say that Muguna Ntumbari and I, have “debased and reframed” his original complaint by implying that he is a Jubilee supporter and had measured NMG neutrality through partisan eyes. He claims that we have assigned his complaint to “the wilderness of political generalities, thereby wrongly ascribing our objective research to some political parties”. He accused Mr Ntumbari of diverting focus and direction of the conversation “towards some myopic party politics”. Mr Ntumbari erred, Prof Muune said, because he was not able to differentiate between political parties and police or government. SYCOPHANCY He said this should not be allowed because it is “totally deceptive and misleading political sycophancy”. He requests that I admit and correct, which I do here, the erroneous suggestion that his complaint was politically motivated and state the correct position regarding his initial complaint that was about what he had concluded to be open bias in the coverage of the Nasa demos. While I disagreed with his conclusions, I accepted his complaint as founded on content analysis, not politics. I cannot ascribe political affiliation to a reader purely on the basis of offering a critical analysis. In any case, I would not be in position to know, or want to know, the political affiliation of a reader who wants an editorial bias rectified. Send your complaints to publiceditor@ke.nationmedia.com. Text or call 0721 989 264.  