National Super Alliance (Nasa) co-principal Kalonzo Musyoka has discounted social media rumours about his wife's health. Mr Musyoka on Wednesday called Mbaitu FM, a vernacular radio station that serves the Kamba community, from Germany to set the record. WHATSAPP “Mwikethiwe na kyeva, Mama e thayu, indi ni muwau (there is no cause for alarm, Mama is alive but still unwell,” he said. He confirmed his wife Pauline is alive but still unwell. She is receiving treatment, the Wiper Party leader, who has been in Germany since October 11, said in the phone call. The former vice president also wrote on Kitui Leadership Forum, a WhatsApp chat room, urging people  in Kitui County to ignore the rumours. Minutes later, Mr Musyoka tweeted on a topic totally different from his wife’s illness that has been a concern to the entire Nasa fraternity. “Only true change can come through a free and fair credible electoral process” he tweeted. Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Junior also tweeted dismissing the rumours as untrue and offensive. VISIT “Those circulating rumours of the well-being of Pauline Musyoka should stop. She is well and we should all pray for her quick recovery” he wrote. Last week, Nasa leaders, including co principal Moses Wetangula and Governors Kivutha Kibwana (Makueni) and Josphat Nanok (Turkana), took some time off politics to check on Mr Musyoka and his. Prof Kibwana and Mr Nanok were attending the UN Climate Change conference in Bonn and took time off to see their leader but Mr Wetangula flew out purposely to visit his fellow principal and give him moral support. The Wiper leader shared several photos he posed with the team in the chilly Germany weather on his Facebook page and a one-sentence message. “Thank You my Brothers Senator Moses Wetang’ula, Governor Prof Kivutha Kibwana and Governor Josphat Nanok for checking on me in Germany. God Bless You. #RESIST” read the post. Mr Musyoka, who was Nasa leader Raila Odinga’s running mate in the August presidential election,  left the country on October 11 and has missed key events in Kenya, including the October 26 repeat election, which was boycotted by his coalition.  