Thika United and Western Stima's fate in the 2017 SportPesa Premier League (SPL) will be decided on Saturday as the season comes to a close. The difference between the two teams is a single goal difference with Thika on -10 and Stima on -11.  Mathare United , who are on a -4 goal difference are also in danger of facing the drop even as they battle Posta Rangers in one of the nine SPL matches planned for Saturday. Who will be going down? Stima and Thika have 35 points, three adrift of 15th placed Mathare. To survive, Thika will need to put seven unanswered goals past Bandari and still, pray that Western Stima and Mathare United drop points. Should both teams win, goal difference and head to head statistics will break the tie. The Slum Boys have a slim chance to avoid the chop not unless their competitors, Stima and Thika register cricket scores. Thika coach Nicholas Muyoti anticipates a miracle to prevent the team from going down for the first time since 2003. “In as much as the other outcomes will be crucial to our fate, we choose to focus on doing our business by winning,” said the former Oserian and AFC Leopards tactician. Stima visit Abdallah Juma’s Chemelil Sugar at the Chemelil Sports Complex.  Stima forward Ezekiel Otuoma, who scored the all-important goal in a 1-0 win over Posta Rangers last weekend to give his side a lifeline in their battle to retain SPL status, says the hostile environment in Awasi won’t hinder their fight for victory. “We’ve trained well and held motivational talks as a team. We want to focus on winning our game with as many goals as possible. We’ve agreed not to give ourselves pressure whilst thinking too much on the result in Thika for goal difference will count if we both win,” said the former Muhoroni Youth and Ulinzi Stars man. At the Moi Stadium in Kisumu, Gor Mahia take on Sony Sugar after which they will officially be given their 16th gong. K’Ogalo, who sealed the title with four matches to spare last month, would however want to pick the points and finish on 76 points, if Coach Dylan Kerr’s words are anything to go by. “I want to win, however meaningless the points could be but we want to finish on a high note. The focus will be on the coronation but first I must demand victory from the boys. Our fans, who have been supportive, must be rewarded well enough,” said Kerr. Sony assistant coach Collins Oduor is confident his charges can destroy Gor’s party by picking points in front of thousands of Green army fans. “We will keep our feet on the ground for 90 minutes. We know the day has been decorated for them but we want points to finish in a good position and we hope the midweek huge win against Muhoroni can motivate us to sneak a win and leave them to celebrate after,” he said. The club’s deputy patron and Homabay County Governor Cyprian Awiti is expected for the coronation. FIXTURES - All matches kick off at 2pm Gor Mahia v Sony Sugar (Moi Stadium, Kisumu) Chemelil Sugar v Western Stima (Chemelil Sports Complex) Nzoia Sugar v Kakamega Homeboyz (Sudi Stadium, Bungoma) Thika United v Bandari (Thika Subcounty Stadium) Nakumatt v Kariobangi Sharks (Ruaraka grounds) Posta Rangers v Mathare United (Camp Toyoyo) Ulinzi Stars v Tusker (Afraha Stadium, Nakuru) Muhoroni Youth v AFC Leopards (Mumias Sports Complex) Sofapaka v Zoo Kericho (Narok Stadium) 
  
Thika United, Western Stima and Mathare United battle to avoid the drop as season ends.