Akothee gives hater a piece of her mind in epic Instagram rant Someone seems to have deeply angered musician Akothee aka Madam Boss. The Baby Daddy artiste recently went on a rant on social media and in so many words, told off the person who among other things questioned her dress code and called her a prostitute. In return, Akothee questioned whether the hater has brains and advised her to “get a corner, sit down and continue analysing and getting broke with a heart full of bitterness,” Oh, and just to show her that she is not lacking for money, she happened to mention that she pays Sh650,000 per term for one of her children’s school fees. “I never saw a rich prostitute, not here in Kenya, I don’t know if it’s in Europe. I don’t live there. If it’s fame you want I will give it to you… you are posing with your breasts out on your profile pics yet you dare question my dress code, am I your mother? One of my children is paying 650K per term yet they are five, how many men will I sleep with to cover this? Lost sheep! Start analysing your life, analysing my life yet you haven’t met me. Now if you come to my real life you will commit suicide because s**t is real, I’m not one of those celebrities who pose with fake things, come slowly,” she wrote.   *** Wema Sepetu denies claims of a ban on lipstick brand Tanzanian actress Wema Sepetu has denied reports that her lipstick brand ‘Kiss’ has been banned by Tanzanian Government. According to news that broke last week, the standard product watchdog in Tanzania TBS (an equivalent of Kenya’s KEBS), and The Tanzania Foods and Drug Authority (TFDA) stopped the distribution of the lipstick saying it was unfit for human use. But according to Sepetu’s long time manager and close ally Martin Kadinda, they are not aware of such news because as far as they are concerned, they had obtained all the necessary documentation to carry out the business. However, they have halted the production of the lipstick not because of the ban as reported, but because they are planning to launch different products. “Hatuna taarifa kwa sababu vibali vyote vipo na hizo zilishaenda sokoni na zilishaisha, kwa hiyo sisi kama hatuna tayari zipo sokoni. Kama ni mtu aliamka na kuamua kuandika all the best kwake, sisi mziko ulishakwisha alitengeneza product za kwanza now anakuja na product nyingine” Kadinda reacted while on a Tanzanian radio show The Playlist. The former Miss Tanzania launched the lipstick brand in 2015 on her 26th birthday when she also gifted herself with a Range Rover.   *** Is Vanessa Mdee dating ex boyfriend Jux? Petite Tanzanian singer Vanessa Mdee has denied reports that she has gotten back together with her ex-boyfriend and artiste Juma Jux. Jux who currently happens to be socialite Huddah Monroe’s crush. Word about the two Bongo Flava celebrity couple getting back together started doing rounds two weeks ago when they shared a stage during the Fiesta concert in Morogoro town. While on stage together, Jux serenaded Mdee with lyrics from his latest song Utaniua, begging for forgiveness as well as asking to be taken back. However, in front a parked crowd, a not so convinced Vanessa gave him conditions to meet before she could think of ever taking here back,  she added that she will only accept Jux back if he will be able to give a sterling performance in the last leg of Fiesta concert that happened yesterday in Dar es Salaam. But when speaking on the radio programme The Playlist a couple of days before the concert, Vanessa appeared to have changed her mind. When she was asked if they had rekindled their love affair she said “Kitu ambacho nyie hamjui Jux ni mshikaji wangu, ni mtu ambaye tunapatana na kufanya kazi pamoja hata vitu vingi ambavyo ni nje ya sekta ya muziki,” Vanessa answered. The former radio presenter said even though the two parted ways, they have remained close friends because of several businesses they have. She went on to add that if she harboured a grudge with Jux, then they would end up hurting the ventures they share.   *** Here is why Anerlisa Muigai was hospitalised Anerlisa Muigai, daughter of Keroche Breweries CEO Tabitha Karanja has revealed that she has been diagnosed with pancreatitis. Muigai, took to Instagram to share with her fans the health scare she went through last weekend. She wrote: “Last Saturday I woke up very well, got ready for the day but on getting out of the house I collapsed. I remember waking up in NH with a sharp pain below my rib cage that nobody could understand,” she began her message. “Minutes later I was diagnosed with Pancreatitis that is caused by gallstones which had formed over the year’s unnoticed. In a million years I never thought I would find myself in this position especially right now that I have been so cautious with my body and health,” Muigai said that the doctor told her that regardless of how fit she (or anyone) is, she has to go for regular checkups “because some diseases just come without our knowledge.” The businesswoman is now feeling better and shared photos of herself and her mother (and an unidentified man whom she refers to as DK in the post) at the hospital.   *** Artistes mourn veteran producer Andrew Burchell Artistes are mourning the death of veteran producer Andrew Burchell who was popularly known as Madebe. Madebe was instrumental in kicking off the ground local artistes’ careers like Nyota Ndogo, Poxy Presha, Fundi Frank among others. “He is the one who gave me the name Nyota Ndogo. He saw my gift and covered all expenses. I remember I was once in a bad mood and I called him crying, he asked me to go and talk to him. When I got there we talked then I told him I wanted to get into the studio, he asked what I wanted to sing but I told him just give me the mic I let it all out and the song went “Rafiki yangu mpendwa naja kwako siku nyingi. Wanipokea kwa uzuri siku zote. Wakati sina wanipa nitakacho husiti nisemacho kwako sawa waniombea Mungu, ooh kuna watu na viatu duniani bado ulikua, free style,” she said, adding “I was free styling, and crying”. Fundi Frank on the other hand wrote on his facebook page “Rest with the angels Madebe, your immense contribution to the Kenyan music industry will forever be remembered,” 
 