The Kwale County Assembly has become the 10th regional House to adopt a proposal by the opposition Nasa to set up a people’s assembly. The motion was introduced Wednesday by Majority Leader who is also the Mwavumbo Ward MCA Joseph Ndeme. Mr Ndeme hailed the proposed people’s assembly, saying it will propel development and reinforce concrete measures for the promotion of inclusivity and the welfare of marginalised communities. "The people's assembly forums will help the citizens have a bigger role in safeguarding devolution, promoting equity and fairness in the distribution of resources and reforming public institutions," he said. POLITICAL DESTINY Mr Ndeme added that the assembly will give Kwale residents an opportunity to discuss other contentious issues regarding the way they will be governed as well as decide their political destiny. Similar sentiments were echoed by Puma MCA Dawa Ngome who said the adoption of the people’s assembly would address the challenges facing residents of the county and other marginalised communities. During the debate, MCA's allied to Jubilee opposed the motion, saying it is against the Constitution. NO ECONOMIC VALUE Minority Leader and Mkongani MCA Ndoro Mweruphe accused the opposition MCAs of not being concerned with problems affecting the people of Kwale. "We were elected to serve the people of Kwale and not to discuss issues that will not bring any economic value to the people," he said. Before the start of the motion, Jubilee supporters led by former senate aspirant, Mr Ruga Mshenga, opposed the debate, terming the motion as irrelevant and that will lead to wastage of public funds if passed. Instead they urged opposition leaders to focus on real issues affecting the country. "We want development and nothing else because the formation of the purported people's assembly will not solve our problems," he said, insisting that problems will only be solved by the elected leaders in the national and county governments. He also vowed to frustrate the bill by rallying supporters and leaders in the region against it. 
 