A man was shot dead in Migori town, a Safaricom booster was vandalised and two vehicles were set ablaze in Kisumu County on Monday as residents protested the Supreme Court ruling that upheld President Uhuru Kenyatta’s October 26 election win. The demonstrators in Kisumu also burned parts of Kondele Police Station and engaged officers in running battles. Other counties in Nyanza and Western region, including Homa Bay, Siaya, Vihiga, Busia, Kakamega and Kisii remained calm, even as some residents vowed not to recognise President Kenyatta as their leader. INVESTIGATIONThe victim of the fatal shooting was identified as Mandela.  “A policeman known to us shot him in the lower abdomen even as he raised his hands in submission,” Mr Peter Onyango, a witness, said. The victim was rushed to Oruba Nursing Home hospital where he was pronounced dead on arrival. Migori County Police Commander Joseph Nthenge said they were investigating the matter. BOYCOTTIn Kisumu County, a Safaricom booster on Kakamega Road was vandalised, looted and its generator set on fire.  The wall surrounding it was also brought down. Former Kisumu Deputy Governor Ruth Odinga criticised the Supreme Court verdict, terming it defective. “Even though we as Nasa did not take part in the election, the verdict was not expected because there is no way 27 constituencies could be ignored. This is even contrary to Article 138 of our Constitution,” Ms Odinga said. INJUSTICEAlmost all constituencies in Kisumu, Siaya, Homa Bay and Migori did not take part in the elections. Homa Bay County Bunge La Wananchi Speaker Walter Opiyo faulted the Supreme Court over its decision, saying the ruling was an injustice. Vihiga County, the home of Nasa principal Musalia Mudavadi, remained largely calm, with businesses in Mbale, Majengo and Luanda towns remaining open.  Sabatia MP Alfred Agoi, who had called for calm before the ruling, later said the country is going through tough times. “Transmission of results was manipulated. We will soldier on with liberation calls,” Mr Agoi said. RECONCILIATIONSiaya, Mr Odinga’s home county, too, remained calm, but residents faulted the court’s decision.  In Kisii County, Jubilee officials and supporters celebrated the Supreme Court verdict. Former Constitution Implementation Commission chairman Charles Nyachae called for tolerance among Kenyans, saying it is time the country moved forward. In Kakamega County, celebrations broke out in Mumias East, a Jubilee stronghold. CELEBRATIONKakamega Town’s main market and bus terminus were bustling with activity as residents went about their businesses. Narok Senator Ledama ole Kina termed the ruling “irrelevant”, as a majority of Kenyans boycotted the repeat presidential election. Kuria East MP Marwa Kitayama Maisori and his Kuria West counterpart Mathias Nyababe Robi termed the ruling “the best for the country”. Kericho Governor Paul Chepkwony congratulated the Jubilee administration following its “much-deserved” court victory. COLLABORATION Kericho Senator Aaron Cheruiyot, in a tweet, said President Kenyatta’s humility in respecting the courts had paid off. Bomet County residents took to the streets to celebrate President Kenyatta’s victory. In Busia, former Budalang’i MP Ababu Namwamba asked the county leadership to work together with the Jubilee government so that the residents can benefit from the two levels of government. Reports by Rushdie Oudia, Elisha Otieno, Justus Ochieng, Benson Amadala, Nelcon Odhiambo, Magati Obebo, Shabab Makokha, Joel Reyia, Barack Oduor, Vivere Nandiemo, Dercik Luvega, Anita Chepkoech, Gaitano Pesa, Geoffrey Rono and Ruth Mbula 
  
Reports indicate the victim was not part of the demonstrations.