Kariobangi Sharks ace Masoud Juma on Saturday plundered four goals to help his team beat Muhoroni Youth 7-0 in a SportPesa Premier League match at Moi International Sports Centre in Kasarani, Nairobi. The Harambee Stars forward now leads the top scorers’ charts with 15 goals, three more than Gor Mahia’s Jacques Tuyisenge and Kepha Aswani of Nakumatt, who will both be in action on Sunday. In Mumias, Chemelil Sugar came from a goal down to hold hosts Kakamega Homeboyz to a 2-2 draw thanks to goals from veteran Edwin Omondi and Shafan Siwa who cancelled out efforts from veteran Wycliffe Ochomo and Jeremiah Wanjala. The focus was however on the match involving Sharks and Muhoroni Youth who desperately needed a win to avoid confirming their demotion, at least for this weekend. The result saw Sharks end an eight-game winless streak in style, as Muhoroni continue to languish at the base of the table, their fate almost sealed. Muhoroni had lost 6-2 to Bandari in their midweek fixture. Juma, who was fourth on the top scorers’ charts prior to this match, scored four goals, matching Edwin Lavatsa’s feat on Wednesday’s match. Juma, a former Sony Sugar forward, got off to a terrific start as he scored two goals inside the first 10 minutes, a warning of more to come. Duke Abuya extended Sharks’ lead in the 23rd minute by heading home a cross from Harambee Stars trialist Ovella Ochieng who was also itching for a goal of his own. Ochieng finally entered the score sheet in the 40th minute with a simple effort that Muhoroni custodian Gradus Ochieng should have easily collected. The league debutants mercilessly continued in their dominating ways in the second half, and Juma made it 4-0 just two minutes after resumption, dispossessing Jacob Faina of the ball just outside the goal mouth to sent it past goalie Ochieng. Second half substitutes Mathew Tayo and Cavin Odongo combined well in the 81st minute to produce one more goal for Sharks, and man-of-the match Juma capped off his day’s performance with the last goal of the game in the 86th minute. RESULTS Kakamega Homeboyz 2-2 Chemelil Sugar Kariobangi Sharks 7-0 Muhoroni Youth  