Q: My girlfriend and I have been dating for six months. A while back I suggested that we visit our parents but she said it is a bit too early (in the relationship). Recently she admitted that she cheated on me one time with an old friend of hers. She explained to me that things just happened; she is human. She begged me to take her back. I forgave her but I broke things off immediately, although we kept on talking about it. She is still asking me to give her another chance. Should I? I am confused.   A: Thank you for your question. Going through your letter, one really wonders whether you are in a serious relationship, and whether this is what you really need in your life. You have only been dating six months and your girlfriend is already cheating on you and offering the excuse that ‘it just happened’. It looks like you want to believe that this was her one moment of infidelity. But is this really possible? The truth is that she will continue seeing other guys and she will be at least strongly tempted to cheat on you over again. She is just human, she claims, but unfortunately, humans tend to change their behaviour only when it’s absolutely, totally necessary. You had initially asked her to visit your parents and she said that it is too early to commit in a relationship. This is a serious indicator that she was not fully involved in the relationship. After some time she slept with another man. Please wake up to the truth that your girl has one foot out the door of this relationship. She has noted that you love her that is why she is coming back to you with an excuse. You seem to be confused and she is using your confusion against you. You must decide whether this is the woman you really want. I suggest you have a meeting with yourself and figure this out. Remember that you are an amazing guy who deserves to be in a faithful relationship. This will enable you to get out of this toxic relationship. Feel the pain, mourn and then move on. Restructure your self-esteem and eventually you will find a great girl who will love you the best way. Wishing you success. 
 