Women’s champions Telkom battle arch-rivals Strathmore University Scorpions Sunday at the City Park Stadium, Nairobi in the pick of this weekend’s Kenya Hockey Union league matches.  Sixteen matches will be played this weekend in Nairobi, Kisumu and Kabarak. Men’s Premier League leaders Kenya Police could move 15 points clear with a win against Parkroad Badgers Sunday, while former champions Butali Sugar Warriors will be aiming to make ground on the leaders with wins against Sikh Union Nairobi (Saturday) and Chase Sailors (Sunday). Focus will however be on the clash between leaders Telkom and fourth placed Scorpions. Scorpions have been Telkom’s main challengers for years and this match promises to be another top draw. It is three years since Scorpions last beat Telkom and the students will be hoping to end that losing streak and maintain their slim hopes of winning a maiden title.  The Madaraka-based side are on 30 points, nine behind the leaders and know that defeat will end their title ambitions with seven matches to go this season. With that in mind, Scorpions coach Meshack Senge has termed it a ‘must win’ encounter for his charges. “We badly need the win to show that we have the pedigree of becoming champions. It is a top match between two teams that know each other well and fans should expect a thriller,” Senge said on Friday. Scorpions will rely on top scorer Gilly Okumu, Captain Yvonne Karanja and the experience Carol Njoki to get them the victory. Okumu, who is on eight goals, hit a brace in last weekend’s 5-0 win against JKUAT. A win will move them to third place with 33 points.  Leaders Telkom are in red hot form winning all the 13 matches they have played so far this season without conceding a goal. They have also scored an impressive 84 goals- the best attack in the division. However, Telkom coach Jos Openda is fully aware that Scorpions are more than capable of stopping his charges march to a record breaking 20th title. “They (Scorpions) have been the side that always give us problems in the league and we expect another top match on Sunday. Our unbeaten run is on the line and we therefore have no room for error,” Openda noted. Telkom’s attack will be led by the league’s top scorer Audrey Omaido (18 goals) and Jackline Mwangi (16 goals). Omaido will be hoping to sound the boards after failing to score in the last two matches. Telkom won the first leg fixture 2-0 on April 15 this year. On Sunday, leaders Kenya Police could move to within touching distance of the title should they beat the Badgers in the 5pm encounter. FIXTURES- All matches at City Park Stadium unless stated Saturday  Premier Women: KU Ttians v UON – 10am National Men: UON v Multimedia -12noon, Kabarak University v Karate Axiom – Kabrak (2pm), Kisumu Youngstars v Wazalendo Youth – 3pm (Kisumu), Thika Rovers v Mombasa West – 6pm Premier Men: KCA-U v KU Vultures – 2pm, Butali v Sikh – 4pm Sunday National Men: Bay Club v Wazalendo Youth – 8.30am (Kisumu), Kisumu Youngstars v Multimedia-10am (Kisumu), Daystar University v Mombasa West -9am Premier Women: Sliders v Vikings -11am, Strathmore v Telkom-1pm Premier Men: Butali v Chase – 3pm, Parkroad v Kenya Police -5pm  
 