The national examiner has tightened management of national examinations in the wake of attempts by both candidates and teachers to get access to materials before the stipulated time. On Tuesday, more principal secretaries joined the team that has been supervising the administration of the examinations. For the second day running, the teams visited schools that had recorded cases of attempted irregularities as leaders of private schools, which have been the main suspects in the misconduct, were summoned for a meeting. PRIVATE SCHOOLSThe meeting, set to take place Wednesday at Jogoo House and chaired by Education Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i, will discuss the role of private schools in administration of national examinations, a day after St Theresa Girls’ Senior School in Nakuru was deregistered for breaking the rules. “Those who are attempting to get undue access to the examination materials won’t go anywhere. "We will catch up with them just the way we have done with a few attempts last week,” Kenya National Examinations Council chairman George Magoha, who visited Aga Khan High School in Nairobi, said. SECURITYAlready, three candidates sitting this year’s Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education exam who engaged in misconduct last week have been disqualified and kicked out of examination centres. Dr Matiang’i said a three-level security management system was introduced in this year’s examination to curb irregularities like those witnessed last year. “The management of the examination has been improved. We have introduced three levels of security,” Dr Matiang’i said last month. On Tuesday, he was in Nyandarua and Kinangop. EXAM CHEATINGPrincipal Secretaries Betty Maina (East Africa), Dr Khadija Kassachoon (Labour) and Ms Susan Mochache (Social Protection) also joined the monitoring teams. Speaking when she monitored examinations at AIC Isinya Girls, Ms Mochache urged teachers and candidates to avoid cheating. Some cases have been reported at Our Lady of Mercy Girls, Shauri Moyo, Furqan Integrated in Wajir and Lang’ata private centre, among others. At St Theresa Bikeke Secondary School in Trans Nzoia County, the principal and a chemistry teacher were taken to court over irregularities last week. DEATHS Mr Jerry Ndikolo, a teacher at Sawagongo Secondary School in Siaya County, also appeared in court last week. Teachers Service Commission CEO Nancy Macharia said those linked to irregularities would be dismissed and prosecuted. “The exams must be guarded properly and nobody should be allowed to ruin candidates’ lives,” she said. In Nakuru, a candidate was stabbed to death at a circumcision celebration during the weekend. In Bungoma, a candidate at Mabusi Secondary School in Kanduyi died at the county referral hospital while sitting the test. Reported by Ouma Wanzala, Reitz Mureithi, Waikwa Maina and Titus Oteba   Knec officials recovered unauthorised scripts, as one student threw a booklet out of a window.