President Uhuru Kenyatta will on Tuesday take the oath of office for a second term, having promised to transform the country in his campaigns. As the clock ticks towards his big day, here is a look at some of his biggest campaign promises.  Economy On the economic front, the Jubilee government promised to create 1.3 million jobs every year and work with county governments to establish at least one industry in every county. In the construction of roads, the government promised to roll out continued road projects to hit 10,000 kilometres of newly-constructed tarmac. Further, President Kenyatta said that he will ensure every citizen is connected to reliable and affordable electricity (on or off-grid) by 2020 to spur economic growth across the country. In housing, the government said it will build 500,000 affordable homes in 5 years across the country by working in partnership with financial institutions, private developers, and manufacturers of building materials and cooperatives to deliver homes faster. It also promised to reduce the cost of construction by at least 50 per cent. Food security In a bold move it said will address water shortages and rampant drought, the government promised to complete the 57-large-scale dam construction programme, and support small-holder agricultural irrigation. It also pledged to work with the private sector to enhance food and agricultural production on at least 1.2 million acres. Further, the government said, it will double and diversify national strategic food reserves from the current 22 per cent of annual consumption to 40 per cent. This is besides promising to expand food and agricultural production, double the fertiliser subsidy initiative, thus reducing the cost to farmers to less than Ksh1, 500. This subsidy programme, President Kenyatta said, will be expanded to include all crops with a resultant increase in production and support the expansion and capacity of local fertiliser manufacture Education The Jubilee government promised to expand the free primary school programme to include free day public secondary schools in Kenya. It also promised to establish a government sponsored apprenticeship programme of up to 12 months for all university and technical institutions’ graduates. Health The government promised to improve healthcare system with the promise to work with county governments to improve the provision of the service. Specifically, the government promised to expand free maternity care to include government funded NHIF cover for every expectant mother for one year. It also promised to double the number of vulnerable citizens supported through the cash transfer programme (Inua Jamii) from 700,000 to 1.4 million to include all citizens above the age of 70. Further, any Kenyan above the age of 70 will obtain health insurance cover through the NHIF. Government efficiency The government promised to make government more transparent and accountable through the digitisation of all government procurement. It also said it will expand and deliver e-government services through the growing network of Huduma Centres. 
  
Leaders also asked opposition chief Raila Odinga to accept the verdict. 