Telecommunication firms are leading the way in customer loyalty, a new report by mobile-first consumer experience platform mSurvey has revealed. The report said Kenyan telcos were the most recommendable sector, with a Net Promoter Score (NPS) of 33, while cable and satellite services are the least recommendable with an NPS of 16. Across all industries, National Bank had the highest NPS score (77). Other companies of note that recorded promising results were Safaricom (34), Naivas (29), Resolution Health Services (28), and DStv (27). NPS, which has been adopted by more than two thirds of Fortune 1,000 companies, including Apple, Sony, Amazon, British Airways and Tesla, is a globally recognised industry management tool to drive business growth. It is yet to be formally implemented in Africa. mSurvey has now used NPS to measure Kenyan consumers’ overall perception of brands across nine industries — insurance, banking, telcos, retail and cable and satellite services. “Finally, decision-makers across Africa now have access to technology that will enable them to benchmark their businesses. Using NPS as a guide, they can better understand and evaluate their current position in the industry, as well as use our other products to further identify areas in which they can improve their performance and growth,” said Ms Claire Munene, chief operating officer of mSurvey. Ms Munene said by introducing NPS software across Africa, starting with Kenya, companies will be business ready as they would be informed and able to anticipate and manage any change they need to make for growth. Introduced in 2003, NPS measures the loyalty that exists between a provider and a consumer. It is based on responses to how likely a consumer would recommend a company, product or service on a zero to 10 scale. Subtracting the percentage of detractors (those who score between zero to six) from the promoters (those who score nine to 10) yields the NPS scores, which can be as low as -100 (if every customer is a detractor) or as high as +100 (if every customer is a promoter). READ: How Kenyan firms are winning brand loyalty The report was unveiled at a time when mSurvey and Owen CX Group — co-creator of NPS — are set to launch Africa’s first ever Net Promoter Masterclass certificate. The certificate is aimed specifically at the continent’s business, looking to unlock revenue growth by understanding the customers. The Net Promoter Masterclass is focused on heads of customer service, research, chief marketing officers and business analysts. “We are very excited to bring the very first Net Promoter Masterclass to Africa; it has been long overdue. Having taking NPS all around the world and seeing how successful it has been in other emerging markets, we believe that Africa provides a unique opportunity for innovation and for companies to accelerate their growth by tapping into the lessons of other businesses around the world,” said Mr Richard Owen, chief executive of Owen CX Group. Mr Owen said it is fitting that they will be bringing the Net Promoter Masterclass to Nairobi, one of the tech innovation hubs in Africa.  