The government has withdrawn two Bills on the energy sector, slowing down progress towards the planned exportation of crude oil from fields in Turkana and the revenues that would be a boost to the economy. National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale announced the withdrawal as he informed his colleagues of the business they would transact in the three days of sittings next week before MPs start their lengthy Christmas break. “For the purpose of correcting the House records, may I inform the House that I have since withdrawn the Energy Bill and the Petroleum Exploration and Production Bill, pursuant to Standing Order 140. This is to allow for republication and presentation to the House,” said Mr Duale. ERRORS AND OMISSIONS The Majority Leader said the Bills had typographical errors and parts that had been left out by the Government Printer when the proposed legislations were republished. “When a Bill is republished, it should be republished with the Bills of the last House as amended. It should include the amendments of the committee of the whole House because they contain the views of the public,” said Mr Duale. REVENUE The Bill on petroleum exploration and production has been contentious over the past year as the government tussled with MPs from Turkana who wanted the share of revenue due to the local community set at 10 per cent of what the national government gets. They pushed through that change in the National Assembly but the Bill was rejected by the President last year, who insisted that the amount remains at five per cent. The proposed legislation was kept in limbo until after the elections and was republished when the National Assembly started sittings after the opening of Parliament. MPS' ROLE The government then appeared to have given in as the Bill published on September 25 had the local revenue set at 10 percent of the national government’s share. MPs had also been given the powerful role of approving the contracts between the government and the oil companies as well as undertake public participation before making a decision. The Bill’s enactment was seen as likely to open the way for the exportation of the crude oil from the Turkana oil fields. One of the significant provisions of the Energy Bill was a Sh1 million minimum fee for illegal power connections by homes and businesses. Homeowners who hire unlicensed electricians would be fined Sh50,000. The Bill combines the Geothermal Resources Act and the Energy Act and is meant to bring the sector under one regulatory framework. 
 