President Uhuru Kenyatta will finally be sworn in on Tuesday after a protracted electoral period that was fraught with incredible hurdles. But things do not look rosy. Critical issues must be resolved. First is the politics and national cohesion. Second is economic and infrastructure development. Third is transformation and building a legacy. President Kenyatta is facing legitimacy questions and stiff resistance from the National Super Alliance. And to demonstrate how deep this goes, the coalition has organised a parallel event, a memorial service in Nairobi for those killed in the recent clashes, which function has been disallowed by police, setting the stage for another round of confrontation. IMPACT More substantively, Nasa has categorically declared it will not recognise the Kenyatta presidency and, instead, has outlined a series of activities to paralyse the administration, among them, declaring its MPs will not participate in vetting of Cabinet secretaries and principal secretaries as well as other top appointments. Simultaneously, it is continuing with the consumer boycott and mobilising its supporters to constitute people’s assemblies. Opinion may be divided over the impact of these plans in bringing down a government. But, clearly, they do not augur well for a nation seeking to reconstruct after months of slump, destruction and deep divisions. They add to the mistrust and hatred that are increasingly engulfing the country. Nasa has the right to protest what it considers electoral injustice. But it is injudicious to keep the country on the tether by the constant threats. We recognise that there are weighty issues that cannot be pushed under the carpet. However, there are appropriate ways of resolving them. The best path is a structured national debate leading to consensus. And that requires the goodwill of the government and the opposition. STAGNANT Second, President Kenyatta has the onerous task of turning around the economy. An extended period of electioneering coupled with a long drought precipitated the current crisis. Even so, the President is acutely aware that vices like corruption, pilferage of national resources and waste that dominated his first term contributed to stagnation. He has to confront these ruthlessly to restore dignity and civility in public management. A third challenge that largely explains the wide mistrust and disenchantment is the exclusion of a majority of Kenyans from national appointments and access to resources. Restricting appointments to a few communities, widely witnessed in the past four years, is unconstitutional, an affront to natural justice and a major factor for public dissatisfaction. For the country to move forward as a stable and united entity, inclusivity is imperative.  