At least four counties in western Kenya have adopted proposal to form People’s Assembly to push for opposition Nasa’s quest for electoral justice.  On Thursday, Busia, Vihiga and Homa Bay counties approved the formation of the assemblies, a day after Siaya County. In Busia, the bill was adopted following a motion moved by Deputy Minority Leader Moses Ochieng’ and seconded by Malaba Central Ward MCA Bernard Papa. MOTION During the session presided over by Speaker Bernard Buluma, Mayenje Ward MCA David Luyemba (Jubilee) opposed the motion. Gardy Jakaa of Bukhayo North/Walatsi (Independent) asked the Speaker about the authenticity of the bill since it had no signature, but was overruled.   The bill will be presented to Busia Governor Sospeter Ojaamong to be signed into law.  Senators James Orengo (Siaya), Cleophas Malala (Kakamega), and former senators Boni Khalwale and Johnson Muthama, among others, on Thursday toured Kakamega and Vihiga County Assemblies to witness the approval of the motions. “As Nasa, we need to streamline the structure of the National Government so that we can compete at the level of our minds,” said Mr Khalwale. In Kakamega, however, the debate was postponed to next Tuesday. SESSION Vihiga County Assembly, however, adopted the proposal. The motion was introduced for debate by Majority Leader Wycliffe Masini, noting it will enable residents discuss issues of great importance on proper governance. During debate on the motion, sharp division emerged between Nasa MCAs and those allied to former Governor Moses Akaranga’s Progressive Party of Kenya (PPK). Of the nine PPK MCAs, only three attended the session. In Homa Bay, the motion for the adoption was moved by Assembly Deputy Majority Leader Ruth Ombura. “The constitution stipulates that the sovereign power belongs to the people. The powers will be exercised well only if we form the People’s Assembly in this county,” said Ms Ombura. Kanyamwa Kosewe MCA Nicholas Owaka accused the state of failing to solve persistent conflict between Kenya and Uganda over ownership of Migingo and other Kenyan islands in Lake Victoria. “Protection of our boarder is a key role of the national government but its unfortunate Uganda is controlling part of our land,” said Mr Owaka. Reporting by Gaitano Pessa, Derick Luvega, Shaban Makokha and Barrack Oduor  
 