The University of Nairobi has deregistered Meru Senator Mithika Linturi as a law student for presenting fake papers to get admission. The university’s Senate sat and resolved to de-register him following investigations that revealed that the degree from a university in India that he used to secure admission at University of Nairobi in 2014 was forged. The development is a blow to senator who was supposed to graduate in December this year. “Universities admit students on the basis of their qualifications and if it is discovered that you forged your document, then the institution is at liberty to stop you from continuing with your studies,” said a senior officer at the university. EACC Mr Linturi was among 106 leaders that the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) flagged as having integrity issues in a list it presented to IEBC in June. EACC wanted IEBC to block Mr Linturi from running for the Meru seat but he took the fight to the High Court and got temporary reprieve. But on June 30, the Senator lost his bid to stop EACC from summoning him over alleged false self-declaration forms he submitted to the commission in 2013. The senator’s forms indicated that he had a Bachelor of Commerce degree in insurance. In his ruling, Justice Said Juma Chitembwe said the investigation being undertaken by EACC was part of its administrative action and the court could not interfere. He noted that the investigation had not been concluded, adding that the legislator has the opportunity to be heard before a final decision is made. “There will be no irreparable damage to be suffered by the petitioner if he is to appear before the commission,” said Justice Chitembwe. PETITION “We’re all governed by the constitution. Granting orders being sought by the petitioner is tantamount to barring EACC from carrying its duty.” But shortly after the ruling, the senator— through lawyer Mugambi Kiogora—applied for a stay order pending his application for amendments. Separately, Mr Mugambi Imanyara, who also ran for the Meru seat on Party of National Unity ticket, has challenged the senator's election win, questioning his integrity. The case is pending before the High Court in Meru. Mr Linturi, who ran and won the seat on a Jubilee ticket, suffered a major blow on November 22 after Judge Ann Ong’injo ordered IEBC to furnish the petitioner with certified copies of Mr Linturi's academic papers. Judge Ong’injo also ordered the electoral commission and county returning officer Samuel Gichichi to furnish Mr Mugambi with self-declaration forms and certified copies of the senator’s academic qualifications. Mr Imanyara, through his lawyers James Odour and Martin Gitonga, had told the court that the lawmaker’s declaration forms and academic papers were crucial in the hearing. The hearing of the case will begin on December 11.   Court makes ruling on papers in a petition case by Mugambi Imanyara.