The Meru County government has budgeted for Sh110 million to build the residences of the Speaker, Governor and Deputy Governor in the 2017/2018 Financial Year and Sh4 million to purchase a golden mace for the County Assembly. According to the Meru County Revised Annual Development Plan (ADP) that is set for approval by the assembly, the mace will provide a symbol of authority commensurate with the refurbished chamber. The 11.5 kilogramme, 4.5 foot mace will be solid brass coated in gold and embellished with African decorative patterns. DEVELOPMENTThe Speaker’s and the Governor’s residences have been allocated Sh40 million each and the DG’s Sh30 million. County Assembly Speaker Joseph Kaberia said the Speaker’s and Governor’s residences have to be built this financial year after the Commission for Revenue Allocation (CRA) gave timelines for allocation of resources. In 2015, the CRA barred the construction in a bid to free money for critical services, advising them to spend on the non-core projects from 2018. The county also targets to spend Sh4.95 billion on development with the Water department getting the biggest chunk. WATERGovernor Kiraitu Murungi’s administration plans to use Sh1.1 billion, with more than Sh640 million for drilling and equipping boreholes in semi-arid areas. Mr Murungi said he intends to leave a legacy of having provided water to all residents of Meru. “I want to be remembered for solving the water problem in Meru,” Mr Murungi said during a meeting with miraa farmers last week.  “My focus is to allocate at least Sh1.5 billion to water in the next two years.” COUNTY HOTELThe Ward Development Fund has been allocated Sh900 million where each of the 45 committees will plan for Sh20 million. The Meru County Hotel, which Mr Murungi’s predecessor Peter Munya was upgrading to a star-rated facility, has been allocated Sh122 million for refurbishment into an office block. Also in the budget is Sh5 million for reconfiguration and refurbishment of MCAs’ offices. 
 