The beginning of the Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) examination this week marks a watershed period for some 615,000 candidates. It will determine those who progress to the next academic level and those to terminate their schooling. Yet apart from being reason to celebrate the completion of a remarkable portion of a rigorous academic journey, this period will also herald moments of deep anxiety and apprehension for the candidates, teachers and parents, primarily because of the anticipated outcomes. EXAM CHEATINGThe 2016 results, which were released unusually early, just after Christmas instead of the traditional early February date, were extraordinary in many ways. The exam was devoid of cheating and other irregularities that had come to define the tests in the past decade. Credit to the ruthless determination of education officials for putting a stop to the shame. More pointed, however, was the overall dismal performance. REMARKING Only 141 candidates got an A grade, compared to 2,685 the previous year. That only 88,929 candidates qualified for university admission with a C+ compared to 169,492, the previous year was a most exceptional and unprecedented statistic. The exam also posted the highest record of grades E, D and D- — 300,000 in total, prompting outrage and a chorus of calls for remarking or cancellation of the results. REFORMSWhile it may be true, as the Education ministry explained, that the results were a true reflection of the performance and that the marking and grading were beyond reproach, the uncharacteristic outcome sent shock waves across the education fraternity, with experts questioning whether that was the pattern the country should expect in future or not. If the results signified the future trend, then there is something awkwardly wrong with the whole learning and examination process in secondary schools. If it was a singular occurrence, we can only hope the lessons have been learnt. While we fully support the ministry’s efforts to rid the system of cheating and other irregularities, the officials should not do anything that undermines the whole learning system and makes examinations a meaningless ritual.  