The Council of Governors has been asked to develop benchmarks for valuing goods and services supplied to counties to avoid overpricing. Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho decried what he termed as inflation of prices by the suppliers whom he accused of being out to make profits at the expense of the county governments. The governor has ordered Mombasa county treasury not to pay suppliers, saying they have inflated prices. INFLATED Mr Joho said an insecticide can supplied to the county was inflated from Sh200 to Sh3,000, while a hand washing detergent was priced at Sh2,500. “I will engage the other governors so that we can scrutinise the procurement process. We need to understand what happens in the procurement process. I saw a voucher for payment to the suppliers and I was astonished. Nobody will be paid. “The same suppliers who complain that they are not being paid are quoting exorbitant prices. You think we are that stupid that we can’t notice when you overprice?” He said anyone who wants to do business with the county must set reasonable prices. Mr Joho said if the suppliers make reasonable margins, counties can afford to pay them on time. “We are struggling to build roads and hospitals we don’t have money,” said the governor. CORRUPTION He also waged a war against corruption, urging public servants to fight the vice. Suppliers have been complaining over delays in payments for services rendered in the county. Some of the suppliers who spoke to the Nation on condition of anonymity said they will meet the county officials today to iron out some issues in the payment of goods supplied in the county. “Suppliers in Mombasa are suffering. For instance, the county owes me more than Sh9 million more than 10 months since I supplied goods. The governor should pay the suppliers and blame his office for sleeping on their job,” said the trader. The trader added that before they supply goods there are several officers who go through the Local Purchase Order which is signed by the chief officers in the user department, procurement and finance. “During delivery of the goods  there a is inspection and acceptance committee which verifies and confirms everything is in order before they receive the goods so the governor should deal with those individuals.”  