Champions Impala Saracens have made changes to their squad while rivals Kenya Commercial Bank (KCB) opted to keep faith in their side ahead of their Impala Floodlit final clash Saturday night at the Impala Sports Club grounds. After struggling to beat Mean Machine 20-10 in the semi-finals last Saturday, Impala head coach Frank Ndong’ is taking no chances making reshuffles both on his forward and back lines.  Props Edgar Obino and Stephen Ayora, who started at loose-head and tight-head, have been replaced by James Kubasu and Joshua Momanyi respectively, with blindside flanker Harritone Munai coming in for Joel Omer, who has been rested. Experienced Robert Aringo and reliable George Okowa could just have hit form at the right time to replace Joash Ngesa and Ishmael Mokaya at inside and outside centre respectively. Ngesa and Mokaya played against Machine. Ndong’ has enriched his bench with prop Kelvin Ronnoh, who has been signed from the United States International University (USIU), flanker Paul Mutsami and centre Anthony Nyandigisi. It will be Ronnoh's first outing for the Sarries. Winger Adrian “Ade” Opondo, who sustained an ankle injury when KCB won at the death beating Homeboyz 18-16 in the semi-final last Saturday, stays out but Collins Wanjala, who came off the bench against Homeboyz, takes up his position. Shabaan Ahmed, who is making his first appearance for the bankers, moves to the bench in Wanjala’s position.  Scrum-half Marlin Mukolwe, who started against Machine, will this time around start at the bench, swapping positions with Michael Wanjala. KCB, who will be featuring in their fifth consecutive final, won Floodies from 2013 to 2015, before relinquishing the title to Impala last year after losing to the Sarries 33-32 in a cracking final. “This is a new season and the KCB we are going to face is unpredictable hence we must step up our forward line battle. Besides Kabras Sugar and Homeboyz, KCB have the heaviest pack,” said Ndong’.  “Their skill levels are high up there and they are playing more open. We will need to dig deeper to destabilise them.” KCB team manager Ronnie Kangeta said apart from Ade’s replacement, the rest of the squad remains intact. “We have stuck to the same team and we are sure they will do the job for us,” said Kangeta. “We want them to jell before the Kenya Cup season.” Kangeta hopes that the dry spell that has been witnessed in the last few days will prevail.  “The problems with rains is that you don’t get to unleash your game plan well. It rained last weekend hence you are forced to keep possession and not play wide,” said Kangeta, adding that they respect Impala.  “It will be pound-for-pound exciting match and whoever keeps his head afloat won’t sink.” ORDER OF PLAY Club Final Impala Saracens v KCB (7pm) Plate Final Quins v Strathmore Leos (5pm) University Final Menengai Oilers v Catholic Monks (3.30pm) Clubs' third Place Playoff Homeboyz v Mean Machine (2pm) 
 