Detectives in Homa Bay have summoned and recorded statements from four MCAs over the attempted raid on the home of former Karachuonyo MP James Rege. A middle aged man lost his life during the attack. The four MCAs who recorded statements with the investigators from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations are Ruth Ombura (Nominated), Nereah Amondi (Nominated), Michael Odira (Kibiri) and Paul Wamunga (North Karachuonyo). MAN SHOT DEAD A man was shot dead while two others suffered gunshot wounds last Friday when they attempted to torch Mr Rege's home in Pala Village in Karachuonyo Constituency.  Mr Victor Muga, 20, was shot dead while Cleavance Odhiambo and Samuel Jeremiah suffered gunshot injuries and were rushed to hospital for treatment. INVESTIGATIONS Homa Bay DCI Daniel Wachira told journalists that the summoned MCAs will help them in their investigations over the attack in which the gate of the former lawmaker’s homestead was destroyed. "The four MCAs shall help us in our investigations as we seek answers on the attack of the former Karachuonyo legislator," said Mr Wachira. The MCAs who recorded statements are all from Karachuonyo Constituency. After the attack, Mr Rege confided to journalists that he suspected the MCAs were behind the plans to torch his home over allegations that there were ballot papers in his home marked in favour of President Uhuru Kenyatta. DEFECTED Mr Rege, who defected from the Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) party to President Uhuru Kenyatta's Jubilee Party, did not defend his seat in the August 8 election, and instead chose to lead a campaign for the president in Nyanza region. Mr Rege said he reported the attack to the police and called on them to accord him security over the threats. "The attack at my home was orchestrated by leaders from the county including some MCAs who led irate youths into the home," claimed Mr Rege. Homa Bay County Police Commander Marius Tum told journalists that security has been beefed at Mr Rege’s home of as investigations over the attack continue. "We have ensured that there is enough security at the home of Mr Rege even as investigations to find out who were behind the attack are ongoing," said Mr Tum. 
 