Parliament has resumed business after a month-long recess that was prompted by the repeat presidential election. But the House stands paralysed because both chambers do not have functional committees. Even before the break, the National Assembly and the Senate could not operate optimally because of a boycott by National Super Alliance lawmakers, who had rejected President Uhuru Kenyatta’s re-election. HOUSE COMMITTEES It seems the stalemate still persists. Matters could be worse given Nasa’s resolve for civil disobedience. On Tuesday, Speakers Justin Muturi, of the National Assembly, and Ken Lusaka, of the Senate, expressed concern that the delay in setting up committees was hampering business. No motions, bills or petitions can be passed without committees. Even more perturbing is the fact that it is the committees that vet candidates nominated for various positions such as Cabinet and principal secretaries. TREASURY In short, the Houses cannot operate without the committees. The country is just coming out of energy-sapping and emotive elections. Critical issues have been put on hold because they require parliamentary approvals. The division of revenues Bill has not been concluded and that has made it difficult for the National Treasury to disburse funds to the counties. The end result is that counties are in crisis. RESPONSIBILITY Similarly, debate on the list of members nominated to the East African Legislative Assembly is pending, and has delayed operations of the regional body. MPs and senators have constitutional obligations to discharge and within specified timeframes. When a section of them resorts to acts of blackmail to achieve political interests, they destabilise crucial activities. Since the MPs have taken the oath of office irrespective of their political affiliation, they must take personal responsibility for their actions. Discontent should not be a reason to undercut the legislative agenda and, in effect, paralyse operations that benefit the citizens. Nasa should reconsider its stand on parliamentary business and nominate its members to the various committees to enable the two Houses to begin serious business.  