The National Cohesion and Integration Commission (NCIC) want Kenyans to embrace national healing following the just-concluded electioneering period that has led to death and destruction of property. NCIC Commissioner Morris Dzoro regretted that the recent elections had divided the country and called on religious leaders, media and politicians to spearhead reconciliation and integration among various communities. The Former Kaloleni MP spoke in Isiolo Town Wednesday during an inter-religious forum aimed at fostering post-election healing, reconciliation and integration. The commission is rolling out similar forums in areas affected negatively by the recent campaigns. STOP POLITICKING He asked politicians and Kenyans at large to stop engaging in politics and focus on building the country, saying the swearing-in of President Uhuru Kenyatta on Tuesday at Kasarani Stadium marked the end of politics. Mr Dzoro, who insisted that his sentiments on opposition leader Raila Odinga were personal and not the commission’s stand, denounced his planned swearing in on December 12, saying Mr Odinga is inciting his supporters. The commissioner, who also served as Minister for Tourism in former President Mwai Kibaki’s administration, said Mr Odinga has been misled by his advisors and lawyers and as an elder, he ought to retire and offer advice to other leaders. “Who will Mr Odinga be sworn in as when he personally chose to withdraw from the repeat election ordered by the Supreme Court which nullified the August 8 poll?” Mr Dzoro wondered. “Politicians should be careful [on] the advice they get from their lawyers. Some of them (lawyers) incite politicians so that they can represent them in court and get money,” he said. COAST SECESSION The NCIC commissioner also denounced calls by Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho and his Kilifi counterpart Amason Kingi for secession of the Coast region, accusing them of being petty and drugging the country behind. He instead asked aggrieved parties to resort to courts, Parliament and the executive to resolve their differences. Religious leaders who participated in the forum were asked to help police fight radicalisation, banditry and cattle rustling that has been rampant in the region by relaying information to respective authorities for arrest and prosecution of suspects. 
  
Dzoro asks politicians and Kenyans to stop politicking and focus on building the country.