Q. I am an accounts assistant in a manufacturing company. I have been dating a colleague in the marketing department for about three months. He says that it’s time we made our relationship public since there is no rule that says co-workers shouldn’t date. However, I am scared that this might cost us our jobs. What do we do?  With people spending most of their waking hours and projecting their fairer selves at work, it is unsurprising that the workplace holds the potential to incubate intimate relationships. Research shows that workplace relationships are common, with some findings indicating that more than a third of the workforce has at some point been involved in a relationship that has gone beyond necessary workplace interaction. While some of these relationships are fleeting dalliances, others do blossom into lifelong unions. In formulating policy, organisations grapple with the challenge of striking the right balance between ensuring that workplace relationships do not present business risk on one hand or encroach on personal liberties on the other. Some organisations have found it useful to set guidelines for situations where relationships could present conflict of interest, aware that it is impractical to entirely curtail or effectively police workplace relationships. With or without published rules, there are norms in your organisation that may help you decide the appropriate action to take. How are such relationships treated in your organisation? What informs the fear of losing your job? How can you ensure that the relationship does not undermine focus on your work? Have you thought about how you would both behave or work together if the relationship ended? Do you consider three months sufficient time to reach the conclusion that you share a destiny with your colleague? Discuss the possible repercussions of your decision and how it would affect both of you. Some couples have agreed to have one partner leave the organisation. Others in larger organisations manage to work together away from direct reporting relationships. Agonise not only about whether it is the right time to broadcast your relationship but also whether it is the right one for you.  