Diamond Platnumz’ brother reveals WCB label weakness Bongo flava star Diamond Platinumz’ brother, Rommy Jones, who is also his DJ, has disclosed one major problem ailing their successful Wasafi Classic Baby (WCB) Recording Label. According to Rommy who was in the country a few days ago, women are the main source of trouble in the label that has employed more than 50 people. Since Diamond founded Wasafi about three years ago, he has gone on to sign high performing artistes like Rayvanny, Lava Lava, Rich Mavoko, Maromboso, Harmonise and Queen Darling who have made the label successful, however not without courting controversies that have all been associated with women. “Wanawake wa Tanzanian wanatupenda sana na social media pia na hao ni shida to the office and in our families,” Rommy divulged. In recent months, Diamond has hogged headlines owing to his troubles associated with women. Most recently he cheated on his partner Zari Hassan with model and video vixen Hamisa Mobetto who has now dragged him to court over child support. A few months ago, Rayvanny was accused of having an affair with Kenyan socialite Mishi Dora at a time his girlfriend was pregnant. Harmonize also dumped his older girlfriend actress Jackline Wolper after cheating on her with a caucasian woman called Sarah. Rommy himself, last year while on a tour with Diamond in Sweden, was accused of rape which led to Diamond cutting short his perfomances.  *** Barakah the Prince sues rockstar4000 Singer Barakah the Prince is accusing his former manager at RockStar400 and an employee of Tanzanian photographer Mx Carter of deleting yet again, his new YouTube account. Speaking to EATV, the Sometimes singer said he highly suspects the two because, apart from him, they are the only ones who had passwords to the account. “I tried to create another YouTube account, other than the first one that had problems with RockStar4000. After uploading my video, there’s this guy who works for Mx Carter who asked for my password because he wanted to help me with some stuff on my account. And just like the first account that one too was deleted,” he said. Barakah maintains that the two are behind it and has taken the matter to court.  *** Lupita slams UK magazine for editing out her hair to fit stereotype AWARD winning actress Lupita Nyong’o has slammed Grazia magazine for photo shopping her hair. Nyong’o covers the November issue of the magazine and is upset over the publications decision to retouch her natural hair. She shared the original photos of the shoot side by side with what ended up as the cover image saying “I am disappointed that @graziauk invited me to be on their cover and then edited out and smoothed my hair to fit their notion of what beautiful hair looks like.” She continued to say that had she been consulted she would not have given the green light to appear the way the magazine portrayed her in shaved hair. “Had I been consulted, I would have explained that I cannot support or condone the omission of what is my native heritage with the intention that they appreciate that there is still a very long way to go to combat the unconscious prejudice against black women’s complexion, hair style and texture,” she wrote on Instagram. She continued to express her disappointment by writing: “As I have made clear so often in the past with every fiber of my being, I embrace my natural heritage and despite having grown up thinking light skin and straight, silky hair were the standards of beauty, I now know that my dark skin and kinky, coily hair are beautiful too. Being featured on the cover of a magazine fulfills me as it is an opportunity to show other dark, kinky-haired people, and particularly our children, that they are beautiful just the way they are.” *** DJ Cuppy denies being a singer after releasing song Renowned female deejay DJ Cuppy recently released her first record with music sensation Tekno but has said she has no intention of becoming a singer. The song is called Green Light and was jointly written and produced with Diana hit maker Tekno. “Just a quick disclaimer, I do not want to be a singer, I’m not trying to be a singer,” she told Pulse Nigeria, adding that this is “me saying to myself that I am finally ready to go for it. I have been on this road for a while, and going steady, and obeying the traffic lights.” The 24-year-old daughter of Nigerian oil tycoon and billionaire, Femi Otedola has a reality show titled Cuppy Takes Africa that is centered on her life as a deejay, friends and family. She also documents her tour of eight African countries including Kenya on the show. In the interview Cuppy, real name Florence Otedola, says she hesitated to put her vocals in the song but Tekno convinced her to do it. “I was so scared and frightened. I told Tekno that I don’t want my voice on the song. Tekno was like ‘Cuppy, your voice sounds like Okra’. I’m not saying he forced me, but when you have someone like Tekno telling you that you are talented, how are you not gonna have confidence?”  *** This is why Banky W was off the social media scene Nigerian crooner Banky W has resurfaced after going off the grid for some time. The Made For You singer took to social media to reveal to his fans that he had taken time out of the public eye to undergo surgery. The singer has been battling skin cancer, but instead of feeling sorry for himself, he called the trying period a “testimony”. “For those who’ve been wondering why I’ve been away so long. I had my third surgery on a rare strain of skin cancer tumour in my shoulder last month. The first two times were over 10 years ago, then it recently resurfaced,” he wrote on Instagram. Banky W, real name, Oluwabankole Wellington was thankful of his recovery in his post writing “Some people went to sleep and never woke up. Many others have lost the battle to cancer and other illnesses. Many are still fighting. U never know when your time will be up so don’t waste another minute,” “The past few weeks of recovery have been tough, but beautiful. I’m finally back on my feet, feeling stronger and ready to get back to life.” He wrote and went on to thank his fiancé saying “I’m especially thankful to my Nurse Susu for loving me and being by my side every step of the way – I don’t deserve you,”   