It is still not clear how the 2017 elections are going to end. First, we have to wait and see what evidence is brought before the Supreme Court, what ruling is made, and what the political response will be. We also need to wait and see how Nasa’s national resistance efforts play out, and the government’s response to the same. What is clear, however, is that the country has become deeply polarised and that ethnic divisions in certain parts of the country seem to be more strongly felt than ever before. EXCESSIVE FORCE In such uncertain times, the use of excessive force by security forces is particularly concerning. First, those killed were individuals with their own lives, families and futures. They will be missed and mourned, and their absence will be felt by their families and communities for years to come. Second, their death is currently having the unintended effect of further radicalising youth in key opposition areas. PROTESTERS In turn, while such force may help to immediately quell demonstrations and resistance, they often – as experiences from around the world can attest – contribute to further frustration, anger and resistance in the longer-term. It is important to stress that not all security officers have used excessive force and that many have displayed restraint in difficult circumstances. In this vein, when the CEO of Haki Afrika, Hussein Khalid, for example, denounced the polls of 26 October as neither credible nor fair, he simultaneously recognised that, when some youth protested in Mombasa, “they were allowed to do so peacefully with police watching from distance”. HARASSMENT This is important, and I have heard many stories in recent months of security officers who, while tired and stressed, responded to protests – including those in which protestors turned violent – with relatively limited force, rather than, for example, with live ammunition or severe beatings. However, not all security officers have shown such restraint. Instead, there are far too many stories of police shootings and of security officers – including regular police, but also administrative police and GSU – following protestors into estates or informal settlements and then indiscriminately beating and harassing local residents. INTIMIDATION This has included some who are clearly too young to pose any kind of threat. In turn, estimates by human rights organisations and media houses suggest that over 100 people have been killed by security officers since the elections of August 8. In a recent statement, the head of Amnesty International Kenya argued that, “What we are witnessing appears to be punitive policing; a blatant attempt to intimidate and punish residents in the opposition stronghold”. There is clearly some truth to this. However, the problem is of much longer standing – with poor youth long criminalised as real or potential criminals, and security officers long accustomed to acting with impunity. SUSPECTSIndeed, last year, one expert told me of how Kenya had one of the highest rates of extra-judicial killings per capita in the world. These killings have long been justified on the basis that the murdered are suspected criminals or terrorists; with such actions then often welcomed by ordinary citizens as a way to take criminals off the street. However, as I wrote on July 2016, following the murder of the human rights lawyer Willie Kimani, “to give police officers an open license to intimidate and kill ordinary citizens is to open the door to a world in which officers can illegally kill suspected criminals and terrorists, and anyone else they do not like”. VETTING In the current context, this includes anti-government protestors who are generally assumed to be, or to be about to become, violent. With excessive force then rendered possible because security officers know that they can act with impunity. A process of police vetting following the inauguration of the new Constitution in 2010 was meant to help address this problem. However, after a number of infamous police officers were excused, most people lost interest and trust in the vetting process, which only further exacerbated the problem as few brought detailed information before the vetting panel. It is thus time to think again about how these problems of criminalisation and impunity can be addressed; with some immediate accountability being a good place to start.  