Mercy Masika lands endorsement deal Looks like gospel musician Mercy Masika is closing off the year in a big way by laughing all the way to the bank. The “Nikupendeze” musician just landed herself a big endorsement deal with laundry detergent Ariel. Masika is the new brand ambassador for Ariel. The excited singer shared the news on her Instagram page with her fans. Speaking to Showbuzz, Masika says she chose to work with the brand because it works closely with women and financially empowers them. “I use the brand and as a mother I clean a lot and that is among the reasons I agreed to partner with Ariel. But I was also drawn to the brand because of its integrity and the work it does with women which is in line with the Mercy Masika Foundation,” she said. Masika has signed a one-year contract with Ariel. “In the past I didn’t partner with some brands because I couldn’t identify with them, but with Ariel we are in line in terms of professionalism and integrity,” Masika said.   *** Musician sues Disney, Demi Lovato and Idina Menzel sued over song in the movie Frozen AN international star is suing Hollywood singers Idina Menzel, Demi Lovato and Entertainment Corporation Disney over claims that they ripped him off of the iconic song “Let it Go” from the movie Frozen. In the law suit, Jaime Ciero claims that the song was inspired by his own hit “Volar”, which was recorded in 2008 and received international success “reaching millions of listeners and landing on numerous charts of the most popular, top-performing songs.” Ciero is suing Disney and Idina Menzel who recorded it for the movie and Demi Lovato who famously sang it for the movie as well. According to him “striking similarities include note combinations, structures, hooks, melodies, lyrics, themes, production and textures.” TMZ reports that if the lawsuit is successful, the musician wants profits from the music, the movie and marketing.   *** Phy to launch line of head wraps next year, says they’re own designs Musician Phyllis Nge’tich popularly known as Phy will soon launch her line of head wraps. Phy, is often times photographed in her signature head wraps and her fans will now get a chance to rock the same look as her come next year. Apart from music, Phy has been featured in magazines because of her beautiful head wraps showcasing various fabrics and styles for different occasions in which to wear them. “We are in the manufacturing stage and hopefully next year I will launch the line. I’m collaborating with someone and we made them from scratch. They are my own designs,” she told Showbuzz. Phy is collaborating with stylist Nudi Okeyo to come up with the head wraps.   *** Yes, it happened to me: Fashion blogger Joy Kendi opens up about depression Lifestyle and fashion blogger Joy Kendi has revealed that she has suffered depression. On her You Tube vlog, Kendi opens up about going through the quarter life crisis which quickly turned into depression. Although she didn’t pinpoint the exact time depression set in, she described what she went through and reiterated the importance of seeking help talking to someone about it. “I didn’t want to leave the house, I didn’t want to get out of bed and I was happiest when I was sleeping. It’s so sad, and if you get to that you need to talk to somebody, anybody, family or friends or get a psychologist or psychiatrist,” she said. Kendi regretted that she never spoke to anyone about the condition and had she done so, things would have been different. “I know there’s a thing when it comes to Africans and depression, they think it’s a white man’s disease but it’s real and it happens to people. It happened to me and many people I know. We just don’t want to talk about it because you’re like, ‘you are weak’. No you’re not, its natural and you need to talk to someone because that’s the only way you’ll slowly start getting out of it,” she said.   *** Peter Okoye hires new manager IT’S been months since the Nigerian dynamic duo P-Square broke up with each of them pursuing solo careers. Now, Peter Okoye, also known as Mr P has announced that he has a new manager. Peter, who has two new songs called “Cool it Down” and “For my Head” shared a photo of his new manager on Instagram and it seems she has already hit the ground running. According to Nigerian website The Net, the manager Emem Ema was part of a gospel girl group called KUSH and has a decade worth of experience as an artiste manager. She also has a law degree from the University of Lagos. Her talent management firm is called One Management. Before hiring Ema, the twins’ (Peter and Paul Okoye) brother Jude Okoye was their manager but Peter never got along with him.   *** Fans rave about Ty Dollar $ign’s new album ahead of Kenya concert Ty Dollar $ign’s recently released album titled “Beach House 3”. The rapper, real name Tyrone William Griffin, is enjoying good reviews on the album and will be scheduled to perform in Kenya on Saturday, December 2 at Uhuru Gardens with South African rapper as the second lead act. @dlewis10_ wrote on Twitter: “@tydollasign might have the album of the year after this second listen,” and @iam_Akann agreed writing; “@tydollasign got the hardest album out right now.” @ImMiitchh said: “Best album I’ve heard 2017 from start to finish. Man like @tydollasign #BeachHouse3 love this guy.” @kellieMcQuade couldn’t help but gush over the album. “I have been part of #TeamDolla since 2014 and I’m not just saying this because of that but honestly #BH3 is one of the best albums this decade. @tydollasign snapped! The beats, the lyrics, his voice, the features are all just amazing.” @lonelylaurinahs tweeted “Get ready, this is a bold statement. I think Beach House 3 @tydollasign is favorite album of all time.” Ty Dollar $ign is famous for his songs “Paranoid”, “Or Nah” and “Blasé”. He has also helped write hits such as Omarion’s “Post to Be”, Chris Brown’s “Loyal” and Rihanna, Kanye West and Paul McCartney’s “FourFiveSeconds”.   
 