A Nairobi family is in agony after their teenage son was beaten and left for dead during Nasa protests last week. Disturbing images Gabriel Odhiambo, 16, covered in blood begging for help have been shared widely on social media. In a status update on popular Facebook group Kilimani Mums and Dads Uncensored, the Form Two student of Kuoyo Kochia Secondary School in Homabay County was running to safety only to land in the hands of a violent gang in downtown Nairobi. RAILA WELCOME There was a march by Nasa supporters on November 17 welcoming their leader Raila Odinga who had jetted back into the country from a US trip. They left a trail of destruction as they marched from Jomo Kenyatta International Airport to the city centre. His father Walter Omollo said his son was not well conversant with the city. "Alikua ametoka shule na alikua akikaa na mimi akaniomba pasa aende Gikomba na rafiki yake kununa nguo na viatu (he had closed school and he came to stay with me. He asked for money to buy clothes at Gikomba Market)," Mr Omollo said. ASSAULTED Odhiambo was with his two friends on their way to Gikomba before the incident, in which one of his friends was also injured, occurred. The three started running towards Nyamakima from Ambassador bus stop where they were planning to board a bus before chaos erupted around Railways matatu terminus. Gabriel and Guracha Ali, who are best friends, were surrounded and beaten. The other friend, who told the story, managed to escape. Guracha was taken to hospital by a Good Samaritan but Odhiambo was left alone to die. The gang stripped him and wanted to circumcise him. JKIA MARCH The family narrated how they tried to call him for more than 14 hours but his phone went unanswered. Out of desperation, they went to look for him at Kamukunji police station and then at City mortuary but he was at neither. "We found him at Kenyatta National Hospital casualty wing. His body was swollen and was labelled 'unknown African person'," the dad said. RECOVERY The family transferred him to Nairobi West Hospital where he is admitted. He was moved to the general ward after being in the Intensive Care Unit for a week. Mr Omollo said he filed a statement at Central Police Station under Occurrence Book (OB) number 120/17/11/17. POLICE Asked about the matter, Central Police division OCPD Robinson Thuku said: "The family reported their keen as missing on the said date. No one has reported any incident of any attack. Mr Thuku said cases of assault should always be reported to police so that investigations can begin.   Man shot, vehicles torched in violent confrontations.