During their campaigns, Nakuru and Nyandarua governors outlined priority areas they would address in their first 100 days in office. However, many of the pledges still remain just that; promises. In Nakuru, for instance, Mr Lee Kinyanjui said he would destroy corruption days after assuming office. The county lost Sh1 billion in revenue in the 2015/16 financial year.CORRUPTION Residents are still waiting to see how the governor will end corruption and address other issues, including the huge wage bill. However, the administration has made some progress, including establishing a task force to address the ailing health industry. The team, chaired by former Egerton University VC James Tuitoek, was given 30 days to present its findings. On agriculture, Mr Kinyanjui has partnered with 17 pyrethrum growing counties in an effort to revive the industry. The devolved government has begun rehabilitating Gioto dumpsite, which was established more than 40 years ago. Mr Kinyanjui and his deputy Eric Korir toured the area on Wednesday. “For long, the dumpsite has been an eyesore to users of the Nakuru-Kabarak road. It is now a danger to drivers,” he said Efforts to transfer the dumpsite during the Kinuthia Mbugua administration hit a snag due to lack of investors. In Nyandarua, residents say they are yet to feel Governor Francis Kimemia’s presence. ATTRACT INVESTORS However, the county boss says his 100 days begun with the swearing into office of his 10 executives on November 13. When he began his reign on August 21, Mr Kimemia promised to market the county, attract investors, recover public assets, clean up the payroll and improve services in general. “It may not be possible for residents to measure the governor’s performance,” Shamata Ward Rep Gitau Karanja said yesterday. “This is because of prolonged presidential campaigns and unstable remittance of funds from the National Treasury.” Mr Gitau, however, added that the county boss had set up systems and laid down the foundation for development. The MCA said the governor had cultivated a good working relationship between the county assembly, national government and development partners. “He has appointed qualified executives. Nyandarua has always been treated like an extension of Laikipia County but we now feel different after Mr Kimemia took office,” Mr Gitau said. But of interest is the establishment of a delivery office; a fully digitised department to monitor the state of the region and implementation of county and national government-funded projects.  