BUYING A MILK ATM I recently wanted to venture into selling pasteurised milk but my worry was market.  But I came across your story on milk ATMs and gained confidence. Please educate me on the business. James Musau Selling milk through dispensing machines or ATMs is an innovative business that is quickly gaining currency in Kenya. It is a better way of selling milk since it is hygienic and environmental friendly and is approved by the Kenya Dairy Board.  The main single challenge is consistency in supply of the milk, as more consumers buy milk from the points, meaning you have to be sure of daily supply to sustain your business.  There are many suppliers of milk ATMs in the market so you must be careful when acquiring one.  Look for machines that have unique but easy to use features, durable and are made of materials that correspond to universally accepted standards for the food industry.  Quality milk dispensing machines are power-efficient, noiseless, made of quality materials that will preserve fresh milk flavour properties and have low operational costs.  Other important features to look for are false coin identification system and milk carrying capacity.  Apart from DeLaval Limited, Tetra Pak or APV East Africa, you can obtain the machines at Finken Holdings Limited or Desley Holdings Kenya Limited. Felix Akatch Opinya, Department of Animal Sciences, Egerton University. **** GROWING BEST GARLIC I am in Nandi South and I want to try garlic farming because in my area, bulb onions do well.  Can garlic do well in the area? Kindly assist on conditions required and where I can get a suitable variety. Willy Cheruiyot Production requirements for garlic are basically like onions except that with the former, a side-dressing of nitrogen at the onset of bulbing is needed.  Garlic requires well-drained soil and adequate moisture. If onions do well in Nandi, then garlic can also do well.  You can get quality cloves from Garlic and Pepino Farm Nakuru.  Their contact is 0723713642 or jkamau2007@gmail.com. Carol Mutua, Department of Crops, Horticulture and Soils, Egerton University. **** MARKET FOR PAWPAWS I am from Kakamega County. I have planted 150 stems of pawpaws but I lack market for the fruits.  Please link me with market? Wycliffe Juma  You can sell your papaya through social media (Facebook or Twitter) where you can inform people about your produce.    These days, people are making a lot of money by selling on social media sites like WhatsApp or Facebook.  You can also try looking for market in supermarkets, hotels and institutions.  Further, contact Vihiga-based Kenya Papaya Products on info@kenyapapayaproducts.co.ke or 0721526619 and ask if they can buy your produce for value addition. Carol Mutua, Department of Crops, Horticulture and Soils, Egerton University. **** DIGGING A BOREHOLE I have been given the cost of digging a borehole at Sh1.5 million to 2 million. Currently, I am using water that costs Sh0.5 per litre and I still break even. Would you be able to do the mathematics for me to determine the better option? I am also told it is not 100 per cent that borehole water will be suitable for use.  The World Health Organisation contends that one needs some 20 litres per day for basic hygiene needs.  Assuming an average family of four, this is about 80 litres per day. With laundry and bathing consuming 200 litres per day, the daily consumption is 280 litres costing Sh140. With Sh2 million, this would last 39 years.  A well will last a life time and has the advantage of being recharged from underground aquifers. Also, desalinisation of salty water can be done through distillation and reverse osmosis. Prof. Daudi M. Nyaanga and Abich O. Otieno, Department of Agricultural Engineering, Egerton University. **** LESSONS ON SOLAR WATER PUMPS Please do incorporate solar water pumps when educating farmers on the modern ways of farming.John Njuguna Solar energy use in farming is important and has been incorporated in a number of Seeds of Gold responses and stories.    Kindly look online for the responses and stories. Prof. Daudi M. Nyaanga and Abich O. Otieno, Department of Agricultural Engineering, Egerton University. **** SOLAR DRYER Please help me get a solar dryer and earthen oven. I am at the Coast. Farmer Solar dryers are available at the Agricultural Technology Development Centres at Mpeketoni and Mtwapa.  Also you can contact Botto-solar Telephone: (+254)-733-711113/ (+254)-722-602561. Prof. Daudi M. Nyaanga and Abich O. Otieno, Department of Agricultural Engineering, Egerton University. ****My name is Kennedy Waiganjo Gitau. I am a third year student at Masinde Muliro University of Science and Technology. I come from Kiambu County. I have been saving some cash which I plan to put into agribusiness. I would like you to advise me on the following:1.  How much do I need to start a profitable agribusiness?2.  Is it true that the government offers loans to individual youth to start agribusiness?3. a) What agribusiness should I start with Sh100,000? (chickens or pigs)b) What are the requirements needed for success in the venture and where should I market the products? I am pleased to note that you are keen on agri-enterprise development as a means of creating innovative and sustainable ways of self-employment.  In response to your questions: 1. The amount of capital required to start an agribusiness will depend on the idea itself and how your business plan will guide you. This document is vital for any business. 2. To the best of my knowledge, yes, government gives funds. I am personally a beneficiary of Uwezo Fund. Nevertheless, the government advocates for creation of partnerships. I personally vouch for partnerships as it’s a sure way of creating a pool of skill, talent, experience and resources.   3. In the course of a number of activities that I have run in the past such as business assessments, baseline surveys, farm monitoring and evaluations and agribusiness viability assessments, I have come to note that pig farming is more capital-intense compared to chicken farming given that scale is a constant. For Sh100,000, chicken farming is reasonable. 4. Kindly prepare a business plan. It is a sure guide for all activities in running the enterprise including a marketing plan. You can get in touch with me on dickson@agfreshsupplies.com for further guidance or direction on this among any other task. Dickson Otieno, Department of Agricultural Economics and Agribusiness Management, Egerton University. 
  
Do you have any questions or enquiries on agribusiness, marketing, logistics, processing, agricultural innovation and technology? Send your questions to: satnation@ke.nationmedia.com