Saburtalo midfielder Alwyn ‘Chamla’ Tera claimed a brace in his team’s 2-1 win over Shukura in a round 36 match of the Georgian National league on Sunday. Tera opened the scoring in the 21st minute, smashing home a half volley from inside the box before completing his brace in the 65th minute.  Sandro Guruli scored a consolation for the hosts in the 74th minute. Saburtalo finished fourth on the 10-team log with 60 points and could earn a ticket to represent the country in next year’s Uefa Europa League should champions Torpedo Kutaisi beat Chikhura on Saturday in the Georgian Cup final. Elsewhere, Kolkheti Poti, home to the Kenyan trio Erick ‘Marcelo’ Ouma, Amos Nondi and John Macharia finished 9th and will face second tier side Merani in a two-legged relegation playoff. The first leg is slated for Thursday with reverse fixture scheduled for Sunday. Poti edged rivals Dinamo Batumi 2-1 in the last round in a match Nondi and Macharia featured. JOHANNA OMOLO In the Belgian second tier, Johanna Omolo clocked 90 minutes in Cercle Brugge’s 1-1 draw away to AFC Tubize on Friday. Gabonese Lloyd Palun gave Cercle the lead in the 37th minute, but Rwandese Salomon Nirisarike levelled two minutes later. Cercle are fourth on the eight team log with four points from three games. In Bulgaria, Slavia Sofia left back Abud Omar played the entire match in a 2-0 loss to Beroe on Saturday, as the Bulgarian First League entered round 17. Sofia remain ninth with 20 points. In Norway, Rosenborg were crowned champions of the country’s top flight and on the other side, Arnold Origi’s Lillestroem signed off with a 3-1 win away to Sandefjord on Sunday. Origi, who made 26 league appearances this season, was the man in between the sticks, as the team finished 12th with 37 points from 30 rounds. OLUNGA UNUSED  Striker Michael Olunga is yet to break into Girona’s first eleven even as the team played out a 2-2 draw against Real Betis on Saturday. Olunga was one of the unused substitutes. Girona moving to 10th position with 17 points after 13 games. Closely in the Segunda division, midfielder McDonald Mariga was a second half substitute in Real Oviedo’s 3-1 win against Numancia to move to 10th position with 23 points from 16 games. Finally on the continent, Kenyan trio at Zesco United, Jesse Were, David Owino and Anthony Akumu will have to wait until the last day of the season to find out if they will be crowned champions. Zesco’s title race was slowed down following a 0-0 draw against Green Eagles on Sunday in a match where Were and Owino missed out due to injuries. Zesco sit top on 71 points, just one ahead of defending champions Zanaco, who beat Cliff Miheso and John Makwatta’s Buildcon 2-1, and Green Buffaloes with a match to close the season. Zesco need a win against Mufulira Wanderers in their last game to win the title. Down South, defender Brian Mandela was an unused substitute in Maritzburg United’s goalless draw against champions Bidvest Wits in a South African Premier Soccer League match played on Saturday. Maritzburg have collected 11 points in 10 games to sit 11th, while Wits are bottom of the log. 
 