The 2017 East African Safari Classic Rally came to an abrupt halt Friday following the death one of the senior directors. Jaideep Singh (JS) Vohra, the director of the East Africa Safari Classic Rally, succumbed to injuries he suffered after his vehicle rolled along the Amboseli-Namanga road while on his way to watch the Marathon Rally. Vohra was also the director of the Sarova Hotels which include Whitesands and Pan Africa Hotels. He was also the immediate former Kenya Motor Sport Federation chairman and was with some other rally members in the car who survived the crash. Raju Kishnani, also a director of the Classic Rally was also involved in the road crash, though he is reported to have suffered minor injuries. He was flown by helicopter to the Nairobi Hospital for further treatment. RALLY STOPPED Organisers stopped the second day action soon after hearing the sad news of the leader of the world famous competition. However, a press release by the organisers indicated that the event will continue in Mr Vohra's honour. Clerk of the course Richard Leeke confirmed the rally will go on as scheduled in memory of the fallen rally administrator. "With deep regret we announce the passing of Jaideep Singh Vohra in a road accident today (Friday). "We believe that he would want the East African Safari Classic Rally to continue and we as organisers believe the 2017 event should continue in his memory. Our condolence go to his family and friends," read the statement. ANOTHER CRASH Incidentally, there was another crash in the competition involving a car driven by Steffano Rocca who was being navigated by Pier Daykins. ''It is very unfortunate but we are out of the rally. We should have been seeded higher up the start order instead of struggling behind slower cars. "We came over a brow and suddenly found we were not in control of the car. The car is destroyed and won't be in a position to be repaired. "Thank God me and my navigator Daykins are very fine and with no injuries at all. We are lucky. That is the end of our Classic Rally,'' said Steffano. PUPIL KILLED At the same time, Coast Regional Police Commander Larry Kieng said that a pupil was knocked down and died by a safari rally car in Taita Taveta on Thursday. The deaths dampened the mood at the major rally that started at Sarova Whitesands Hotel in Mombasa on Thursday morning. Mr Vohra played a key role in the preparation for the rally that has boosted tourism at the Coast due to the high number of international and local participants. Mr Vohra was present when Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho flagged off the rally on Thursday. Thirty cars embarked on ray one 500km journey through Old Tukai Lodge in Amboseli National Park. Team Tido's Stig Blomqvist was the first off the ramp at 6am followed by local drivers Carl "Flash" Tundo, Baldev Singh Chager and Ian Duncan. Other drivers in the rally include 74-year-old Tanzanian Jayant Shah, one of East Africa’s most accomplished rally drivers. The first stage of the rally was a technical 94.07km run through busy villages all the way from Kasava to Samburu. Mackinon-Taita grid was the second high speed run through the savannah plains totalling 90.53km. The rally is set to end on December 1 after the drivers go through the Tanzanian stretch. The rally is co-sponsored by Safaricom, Kenya Wildlife Service (KWS), Vipingo Ridge, Dodhia Packaging, Copy Cat Group and Internet Solutions. BLOMQVIST LEADS Meanwhile, Sweden's Stiq Blomqvist maintained his lead of the 2017 Classic Safari Rally prior to the sudden changes in the competition. The Porsche driver, who is seeking his second consecutive victory of the Kenya's major event, had led the event for the last two days of the 10-day competition. Ian Duncan, a two-time winner of the Classic Rally hopes to start day three after missing out on Friday's action after his Ford Capri developed mechanical problems on the first day of the competition. Duncan's Capri, which had an engine issue, was under repairs to rectify the problem had his car repaired to allow him to continue with the rest of the competition. The Classic Rally Rules allow drivers to miss a maximum of four full days collectively or individually with penalties as specified in the regulations and still re-join the rally. OPTIMISTIC As per the rules, any driver exceeding four days will not be classified. Drivers are also permitted to miss any competitive section for the penalty as laid down in the regulations. Ramesh Vishram sounded optimistic about his performance though his Ford Escort had minor mechanical problems. ''It was a good day, but such a pity that the first stage had an issue but all in all it has been a good start besides the wet conditions. "I thank God that we managed to go through. The second stage of day one was rough. I had to be extremely cautious,'' said Vishram, the Cementers team driver. KABRAS TEAM Kabras team leader, Onkar was slowed down behind a lot of cars in the mud holes but he said the team had a good day. He complained of losing valuable times after he was slowed down by several cars stuck in the mud. "However we lost gears and we didn’t have fourth gear but we still set got good times. We will have to see what times we get as we will have to put in a new gearbox. "As for the whole Kabras team, we just have to make sure we get to the end,'' said Onkar. On day three, the cars will move towards Taita Hills with three more stages along the route. Cars will tackle stages through Ol’ Tukai (152km), Emali (144km) and IL Laset (38km) before spending the third night at the Voi Wildlife Lodge. Veteran rally driver Jayant Shah and his navigator Ravi Chana are motoring well in their Porsche 911 - celebrating the eighth edition of the marathon rally, which comprises nearly 3800km of combined transport and competitive sections. Frank Tundo, one of the famous former Safari Rally drivers and the brain behind the Rift Valley Motor Sports Club Classic Rally, is lying a steady sixth with Gavin Laurence as his navigator in another Triumph TR7.  