Kariobangi Sharks talisman Masoud Juma scored a brace to take his goal tally to 17 in their emphatic 4-1 win over visiting Nzoia Sugar during their SportPesa Premier League match at Camp Toyoyo grounds on Saturday. Juma broke the deadlock four minutes into the match with a nice half volley off an Ibrahim Kitawi pass. Patrick Kwitonda levelled for Nzoia three minutes later for a 1-1 draw at the break. The game looked heading for a one-all draw with action swinging from one end to the other until Duke Abuya restored Sharks’ lead in the 68th minute with a well taken shot from inside the area. Ovella Ochieng’ did the donkey work on the right flank to swing in a cross that Masoud chested down for Abuya to place past Nzoia custodian Benson Mangala. Lawrence Juma’s beautiful free kick two minutes later went inches off the target. In the 79th minute, Patillah Omoto had a sumptuous free-kick from the left flank tipped over the bar by Mangala for a fruitless corner. Ten minutes later, Masoud picked the ball from the midfield, raced down the left flank before beating Mangala in Nzoia goal for his second of the afternoon. Masoud now has 17 goals, three ahead of his closest challenger Jacques Tuyisenge of Gor Mahia, who scored the lone goal in their 1-0 win over Kakamega Hoimeboyz also on Saturday.  Abuya completed the rout with his second deep into stoppage time to in a match that was graced by Football Kenya Federation (FKF) president Nick Mwendwa and Harambee Stars coach Stanley Okumbi. A win for Sharks set up a potentially explosive clash against fellow debutantes Nakumatt - who beat Sony Sugar 1-0 in Awendo on Saturday - in the last match of the season. “We would like to finish it in a style no matter who we face last. Nakumatt is a very good side and being the last match, it can go either way but the boys are in good spirits now, two wins on the trot is awesome before we see off the season,” Sharks coach William Muluya said after the match. His counterpart Bernard Mwalala left the pitch in a huff and snubbed the media.  A 12th win for Sharks moved them to 49 points, six ahead of Nzoia. Nzoia host Kakamega Homeboyz in their final match of the season next Saturday. 
 