ABUJA At least 235 people have been killed this month in two northern Nigerian states of Adamawa and Zamfara in attacks by insurgents, ethnic militias and bandits, reports show. The two latest attacks on Tuesday, blamed on the Boko Haram insurgents, claimed at least 80 lives. SUICIDE BOMB A 17-year-old boy was reported to have carried out a suicide bombing in Dasala area of Mubi, in Adamawa State on Tuesday. It killed 50 people. Another Tuesday attack carried out by militias on the Fulani settlements in Numan left 30 people dead. The Adamawa Police spokesman, Mr Abubakar Othman, said 30 people were killed, but local leaders put the death toll at 60. The attack was executed by suspected members of the Bachama ethnic group. SLAIN The North East Chairman of the Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association (MACBAN), Mr Mafindi Danburam, said more than 60 Fulani people were killed. He alleged that the attackers were youths from the indigenous population who had been threatening the herders. Adamawa State Deputy Governor Martins Babale visited the area to commiserate with the victims. BANDITS Zamfara State Governor Abdulaziz Yari also reported that 155 people had been killed by bandits this month. In a state broadcast on the security challenges facing the state, he said more than 50 people were kidnapped by the bandits. Mr Yari said 53 people were killed in Shinkafi, 50 in Maru, 37 in Maradun and 15 in Zurmi local government areas. At least 25 people were killed on Saturday night in another attack. CRUEL President Muhammadu Buhari has described the attacks as “very cruel and dastardly”. He assured the states that the government would do everything required to provide security. President Buhari also directed the Inspector-General of Police Ibrahim Idris to deploy more personnel to prevent further attacks by armed bandits in Zamfara State. The President directed the police boss to visit the state and report back his findings about the deadly attacks. 
  
Blast happened during early morning prayers at the Madina mosque in the Unguwar Shuwa area of Mubi.