As Gor Mahia supporters await the league coronation ceremony scheduled for November 18, another heated battle is brewing at the opposite end of the table. The relegation battle has moved up a notch with three games remaining, with Western Stima, Thika United, Mathare United, AFC Leopards, Sony Sugar, Zoo Kericho and Muhoroni Youth all knee deep in the red zone. Wednesday’s league results left seven teams at the bottom separated by just five points, meaning that any small slip ups could cost the teams their spot above relegation. Whether it is low morale, lack of goals and regardless of previous record, all the teams aforementioned must win their remaining games if they are to remain in the SPL table come next season. Sorry Muhoroni Youth, who are deep in the relegation quagmire, face Kariobangi Sharks on Saturday in Narok hoping to put behind their woeful performance against Bandari on Wednesday. Muhoroni lost 6-2 at home to Bandari in their previous assignment, a result that left them rock bottom and with little hope of pulling themselves out. It was also the biggest defeat a team has suffered in the league this season. Muhoroni have endured their toughest season in five years in the Premiership and have changed coaches five times in the course of this year, perhaps a league record. STIMA START GREAT ESCAPE Western Stima will be at their Kisumu home ground to face Ulinzi Stars as they desperately fight for survival. Stima slumped to a 2-1 loss to champions-elect Gor Mahia on Wednesday, and must now win all their remaining matches in order to stay alive. Stima will let in fans for free to shore up their support as Ugandan coach Richard Makumbi hopes against all hope that his team will win the fight. “Until we finish the three remaining games, it is not over. My boys still have the fighting spirit so we shall keep fighting. I am confident that we shall get there,” he said. On Sunday, AFC Leopards will face league debutants Nakumatt hoping to bounce back from their 2-0 loss to Nzoia United on Wednesday. It is unthinkable to imagine a side like Leopards facing relegation worries, but this is football.Zoo face Gor Mahia at Afraha. FIXTURES Saturday: Kakamega Homeboyz v Chemelil Sugar (Mumias) Kariobangi Sharks v Muhoroni Youth (Narok) Sunday Bandari v Posta Rangers (Mbaraki) AFC Leopards v Nakumatt (Mumias) Mathare United v Nzoia Sugar (Thika) Sony Sugar v Sofapaka (Awendo) Tusker v Thika United (Ruaraka) Western Stima v Ulinzi Stars (Kisumu) Zoo Kericho v Gor Mahia (Afraha)   The junior Starlets are under the stewardship of Musa Otieno.