Kenya will face the toughest test in their quest to qualify for the 2018 Fifa Under-20 Women’s World Cup when they face the Black Princesses of Ghana Sunday afternoon at the Cape Coast stadium in Cape Coast. A team of 17 players travelled to Ghana Friday morning. Efforts to get the full list of the FKF contingent to Ghana proved fruitless as the federation declined to reveal the names of all the tourists. Kenya edged out Ethiopia 4-3 on aggregate in the last round of qualifiers, while the Black Princesses beat Algeria 10-0 over two legs to get to this stage. Ghana is under the tutelage Yussuf Basigi who said he was going for a win despite expressing concerns over the short training period he had with his girls. “We haven’t had a lot of time to prepare, but I am glad the girls have picked up quite fast. We are in no hurry. To get to the World Cup we must first qualify, so we are taking it, opponent after opponent,” he said. This is Kenya’s second last hurdle before they can actualise their dream of making a maiden appearance at the global junior competition which is scheduled for August in Paris. SUFFERED A BLOW The junior Starlets are under the stewardship of Musa Otieno.Otieno, who joined the team midway through the qualification process, suffered a huge blow as seven of the players he called up failed to attend training due to the on going Kenya Certificate of Secondary School Examinations that begin on Monday. To get to this stage, the junior Starlets beat Botswana 7-1 on July 21 away at the Lobatse Stadium in the preliminary round of qualifiers. The Botswana Zebras pulled out of the return leg after this thrashing. Kenya thus gained easy passage into the tournament’s first round against Ethiopia whom they held to a 2-2 draw away in Awassa before beating them 2-1 in the return match early this month in Machakos. KENYAN SQUAD Corazone Aquino, Judith Osimbo, Wincate Kaari, Brenda Achieng, Diana Wacera, Fiscah Nashivanda, Lilian Awuor, Lucy Akoth, Rachel Muema, Quinter Atieno, Lilian Mmboga, Veronica Awino, Gentrix Shikangwa, Linda Nasimiyu, Leah Cherotich, Martha Amunyolete, Stella Anyango Technical Bench: Musa Otieno (Technical lead), Caroline Ajowi (Coach), Ann Aluoch (Asst Coach), Jackline Akoth (Asst Coach), Hassan Shah (GK Trainer), Mikael Igendia (Strength and Conditioning Coach), David Ndakalu (Team Doctor)   Western Stima will be at their Kisumu home ground to face Ulinzi Stars.