Butali Sugar Warriors on Saturday kept their slim hopes of reclaiming the Kenya Hockey Union men’s Premier League title alive after a 3-1 win over Sikh Union Nairobi in an encounter staged at the City Park Stadium, Nairobi. Goals from Frank Wanangwe, international Maxwell Fuchaka and Zack Aura fired the lakeside side to the vital win. Sikh had briefly levelled through Harvir Ghautauare but were unable to build on the momentum, as Butali scored two goals in the last eight minutes to secure the points. The win moved the former champions to 42 points from 18 matches, 13 points behind leaders Kenya Police who play Parkroad Badgers on Sunday. Butali will also be in action Sunday as they tackle Chase Sailors as they bid to keep the pressure on Police. A win will seem them dislodge second-placed Greensharks who play Chase on Wednesday. Butali coach Godfrey Wakachunga was pleased with the result but warned his charges against dropping any more points. “Every match for us now is a must-win and we have to be at our best. Hopefully Police will drop a couple of points and allow us back in the race,” Wakachunga noted.  Butali had to wait until the final minute of the quarter as Aura and Emmanuel Simiyu combined to set up Wanangwe, who shot past Sikh keeper Caleb Simiyu, for a 1-0 lead at the end of the first period. Butali eased off in the second quarter allowing Sikh to get back in the match. Matches involving Kenyatta University men and women’s teams failed to take place after the institution was closed down on Friday due.  The men’s team, the Vultures were due to play Kenya College of Accountancy of University (KCA-U) as their women’s team, the Titans were to tackle University of Nairobi. In Kisumu, visitors Multimedia University came from behind to snatch a 2-1 win against hosts Bay Club at the Kisumu Sports Club. The homeside had taken the lead in the fifth minute through Brian Luchelu’s strike after Victor Osome’s short corner.  The students however levelled five minutes later as Machibi Melchizadec bundled the ball home. The winning goal arrived three minutes to the end as skipper Danstone Barasa sliced shot beat Bay keeper Jeremy Ojwang at his near post. Mombasa West hit Thika Rovers 1-0 as Kisumu Youngstars recorded a 2-0 win over Wazalendo Youth in other second tier league ties. 
 