Kisumu based Palos FC will not participate in the National Super League (NSL) starting 2018, Nation Sport understands. On October 17, the team, through its chairman Patrick Imbuga wrote to the Football Kenya Federation (FKF) stating financial hiccups as the main reason for the withdrawal. In a letter signed by FKF Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Robert Muthomi, the federation granted the side its wishes. “We acknowledge receipt of your letter dated October 17, 2017 regarding the withdrawal of your team, Palos FC, from the National Super League, 2018 season owing to financial constraints." The withdrawal by Palos FC from the NSL is surely regrettable considering the team has been among those that have helped raise the profile of the NSL owing to its organisation and competition offered in the league since earning promotion to the NSL in 2016. "We do appreciate the contribution and the role you and your team has played in the growth and development of football in the Nyanza region and the entire country as a whole since the team’s inception in 2012,” read part of the letter signed by FKF CEO Muthomi and dated November 10. After seven rounds, the team is ranked seventh on the 19-team NSL standings with 45 points coming from 10 wins, 15 draws and nine defeats. The team has forfeited their Sunday match against Administration Police, but will honour their last game of the season against Isibania slated for Moi Stadium in Kisumu County on November 26. They will be remembered for producing several talented players that were spotted by top flight clubs. The 2016 SportPesa Premier League Most Valuable Player Kenneth Muguna, Western Stima goalkeeper Gad Matthews and Sofapaka winger Morven Otinya are some of their products. Elsewhere, Kakamega High’s Green Commandoes have been promoted to the NSL after attaining an assailable lead in the FKF National Division One Zone B. Green Commandoes, which is made up of secondary school students, sit atop of the 13-team log with 49 points, seven ahead of closest challengers Timsales with two games to end the season.  In Zone A, Kangemi AllStars and Coast Stima are in contention for a promotion slot. AllStars lead with 52 points, just one better of Stima with two rounds to go. 
 