The stage is finally set for the swearing-in of President Uhuru Kenyatta on Tuesday, and, hopefully, this will cool down tensions and get the country back on track. It has been months of tearful confrontational politics interspersed with violent protests that have caused deaths, loss of limb and property. Even now, we are alive to the fact there are simmering tensions as half of the country gripes over the outcome of the presidential elections in August and last month, which is the reason the top leadership must take a step back and seek a new direction out of the rut. DIVISIONAs he takes the oath of office for his final five-year term, President Kenyatta cannot sit pretty, assuming he has vanquished his opponents. He has to confront political and social dissent that have emerged from the elections and which have refused to go away. The country is badly bruised and people deeply divided. As the symbol of national sovereignty, it is the President who must reach out to his adversaries and bring everyone together. SACRIFICEFor the umpteenth time, we reiterate that healing the country requires the commitment of President Kenyatta and Nasa leader Raila Odinga because the problem we have is purely one of political supremacy. It will not be easy because of the deep sense of mistrust and intractable positions taken by either camp. But they must be pushed into making hard decisions; for that is what leadership is all about. There is no heroism in holding onto tough positions when the country is drifting apart. DEMOCRACYUnderneath all this is the question of electoral justice and democracy. It is an indictment of the political establishment that we have evolved a system where elections are never clean. Every election cycle is preceded with apprehension and the outcomes are contested often violently. More than 50 years of independence and we cannot get elections right, even with a progressive Constitution. We must confront and resolve this sad reality. President Kenyatta has a chance to lead the country into a new era of reconciliation and national healing, peaceful co-existence, correcting historical injustices and respect for the rule of law; and today is the starting point.  