Irrespective of one’s opinion of the Presidential petition ruling, almost everyone would agree that there was little or no enthusiasm for a third presidential ballot.  The country is sick and tired of campaigns, petitions, protests, press briefings and political rallies.  The cry of the masses is to give us back our lives and our country; we have had our fill of politics and court decisions.  Put another way, neither courts nor elections appear able to address the critical issues that face this country. Something else is required, leadership.  UNITYMr Uhuru Kenyatta has through his press secretary promised that he will be President for all Kenyans, those who voted for him and those who didn’t.  That was a fairly predictable promise coming soon after the Supreme Court decision.  However, it does suggest that perhaps not all Kenyans felt equally treated in the first term of Mr Kenyatta’s rule.  Judging by the turnout at the October 26 ballot and the distribution of the vote, he has a lot of work to do to convince the citizens in large chunks of the country.  MARGINALISEDThat feeling of being excluded and marginalised is raw and real for a huge percentage of the population.  If the government is sincere about treating every community equally and fairly, it will listen to those cries and address them.  It would be a grave mistake if Mr Kenyatta were to allow his closest confidants to attack, demonise and persecute individuals and communities who disagree with his style of leadership.  It would be just as grave an error to harass, frustrate and treat with contempt civil society organisations and the media that the Kenyan public hold in high esteem.  Worse still would be to allow the police to continue to kill, maim and torture unarmed protesters.  SECESSIONIn other words, the more confrontational, aggressive and repressive the new Government becomes the louder will be the calls for secession. That clamour is not just populist language; it is a cry of desperation and frustration.  But if Mr Kenyatta keeps his promises about inclusivity and tames his most belligerent lieutenants then secession calls will just fade away. The future then is pretty much in his powerful hands. RAILAYet power and leadership are not synonymous.  Mr Odinga has been a leader with a huge following for four decades but has never ascended to the Presidency.  He still has the potential and the opportunity to be a leader without executive power yet exerting huge influence for positive change.  He has done more to open up democratic space and promote devolution than anyone else in the country.  But if he mismanages the immediate future his legacy will be destroyed and maybe the country, too.  LEADERSHIPThe manner in which the police handled Mr Odinga’s homecoming last week was deplorable, yet Nasa’s failure to organise peaceful protests has tarnished its reputation and alienated whole sections of the population.  Mr Odinga must persuade his critics by creative, peaceful means and not bully them with threats. That is real leadership. Two men then with huge followings who will be remembered fondly if they display genuine leadership at this critical moment of time.  The ball is very much in their courts.  gdolan54@gmail.com. @GabrielDolan1 
 