Police in Likoni, Mombasa County, have shot dead a suspected member of a panga-wielding gang that has been terrorising residents. The suspect was shot in the stomach after police responded to an alarm by residents that more than 20 youths armed with machetes were attacking them in Mwatsalafu. MANHUNT An eyewitness, Mr Mohammed Kombo, said the suspect was shot at as he tried to attack police after slashing locals. “We are still pursuing other suspects who were slashing people in broad daylight. We cannot allow a few individuals to disrupt our peace and the parents should be warned,” said Mombasa County Commander Johnstone Ipara, as he confirmed the killing. Meanwhile, police in Kisauni had also launched a manhunt for two gangsters who killed a boda boda rider and stole his motorcycle. The boda boda operator was killed at Bashiri on Monday night by the armed criminals. MOTORCYCLE Kisauni police chief Christopher Rotich said the rider was transporting the two thugs who had posed as passengers. “They killed him after he refused to surrender the motorbike. The rider had bought his bike just recently and became hesitant when he was asked to surrender it,” said Mr Rotich. According to his colleagues, the boda boda operator screamed before he was shot dead by the criminals, who sped off with the motorcycle. “When he was asked to surrender the boda boda he tried to fight with them and screamed. We responded to see what was going on and that is when they shot at him and shot in the air to scare us away,” said one rider. ARMED He said the rider had spoken to his wife a few minutes before he left home and had promised to get back home at around 10pm. Mr Rotich said the thugs are suspected to be behind a series of robberies in June targeting business owners. “They might be the one who were terrorising M-Pesa agents in our area while armed with pistols. We have not nabbed these two but we are going to pursue them,” said Mr Rotich. ROBBERY In June, two thugs killed a butcher identified as Abdulrahman before making away with an unknown amount of money and a laptop. The robbers took the money from an M-Pesa outlet that operated inside the butchery in Bamburi-Kiembeni. The 39-year-old man was shot in the chest and the thugs used a boda boda to flee. The two robbers were also linked to the shooting of a lorry driver as they attempted to rob him in Bamburi. 
 