The fifth group of cadets trained under a modified military undergraduate programme at Kenyatta University were commissioned by President Uhuru Kenyatta at the Kenya Military Academy, Lanet, Nakuru County. The newly commissioned junior military officers underwent a three-year training under the Bachelor of Science in Military Studies offered by Kenyatta University in collaboration with the Ministry of Defence. UHURU KENYATTA Today’s ceremony was the president’s first official public engagement outside Nairobi since his inauguration on Tuesday this week. The President said constant and deliberate efforts have been made in recent years to modernise the training of Kenyan security forces and keep it relevant to the evolving security environment. While lauding the defence forces that have been fighting and suppressing terrorists, the President cited extremist groups as security challenges that still remain persistent. He urged all Kenyans to help in fighting terrorism.   “I want to be perfectly clear, we will win because we have right and might on our side. We also have unity. Like the cowards that they truly are, these terrorists have sought most unsuccessfully to create division, hatred, and fear among Kenyans,” Mr Kenyatta said. SECURITY “They have utterly failed. Kenya today is more firmly united in the fight against terror than at any time in all our history.  And our Defence Forces remain steadfast in their mission to bring lasting peace and development in the region with unwavering zeal and determination,” he stated.   Mr Kenyatta said a professional defence force was crucial in the achievement of national goals. He also noted that peace, security, governance and sound economic development policies play a critical role in the prosperity of the nation. Present at the ceremony were Defence Cabinet Secretary Raychelle Omamo, Chief of Defence Forces Gen Samson Mwathethe, Commander Kenya Army Lt Gen Robert Kibochi, Commander Kenya Airforce Maj Gen Samuel Thuita, Commander Kenya Navy Maj Gen Levi Mghalu, Kenya Military Academy Commandant Maj Gen George Owino, among others.   STUDIES The newly commissioned group commenced its training in October 2014 and is scheduled to graduate in December 2017 at Kenyatta University. The cadet training programme at the institution, formerly the Armed Forces Training College, was reformed to add an undergraduate academic component to the professional and character development training. Some of the cadets were seconded from Tanzania, Rwanda, Uganda and Burundi militaries. The president expressed hope that friendships established across the borders would help in strengthening the unity in the region.  