Vision 2030, an ambitious policy framework launched a decade ago, sought to transform the country and catapult it the into the ranks of the newly industrialised economies and improve the quality of lives of citizens. Major projects were launched such as the Thika Superhighway that made a difference in the nation’s life. The vision was anchored on three broad pillars: Economic, social and political. Their achievement was premised on a set of variables, key among them being sustained macroeconomic stability with an annual growth rate of 10 per cent for 10 years from 2012. However, all is not well anymore. The director-general of Vision 2030, Dr Julius Muia, has raised the red flag. VISION Specifically, Dr Muia has faulted counties for failing to roll out or support major projects under their jurisdiction that formed the bedrock of the vision. To be sure, the counties came into being in 2013, in line with the 2010 Constitution, five years after launch of the vision. Although in principle, the counties should anchor their projects on the vision, they have taken on their trajectories arising out of the felt and urgent needs or the socio-political inclinations of their administrations. But are the counties the real reason for the slow progress towards realising Vision 2030 goals? We are not convinced; as this is a diversionary argument. Has the national government and the Vision 2030 secretariat, taken time to discuss and assist the counties to align their strategies to this vision? The administration has failed to show enthusiasm and desire to advance that vision. A good example is the Lamu Port, South Sudan, Ethiopia Transport Corridor (Lapsset) project that was launched in 2012, and which has hardly progressed. Konza Techno City took too long to take off and even when the construction of office blocks began, this has been relatively slow. Likewise, reforms in the public sector have stalled. Clearly, there is a real need to take a fresh look at the vision and confront the real issues. The national leadership must demonstrate commitment to the vision by showing the political goodwill, providing financial allocations and taking a lead in pushing the projects to completion.  