The third leg of Athletics Kenya (AK) Cross Country Series that is due for Nyandarua County Saturday will now be staged at Ol Kalou town grounds and not the Nyandarua Technical Institute grounds. AK Central chairman David Miano disclosed that seasoned and upcoming athletes will head to Ol Kalou for the first time, warning them to prepare for any weather conditions. “Runners should anticipate some rains and even cold conditions,” said Miano He added: “We expect a large number of athletes who train in high altitude areas of Nyahururu considering.” Miano, who is also the AK treasurer noted that the cross series will lead to the selection of Team Kenya for the Africa Cross Country Championships due March 17 in Chlef, Algeria. Athletes from Central Rift, North Rift, South Rift and Eastern take the battle to the local athletes as the season hots up. Keringet’s David Bett, who won the first leg in Nairobi to signal his return, will be seeking his second victory.  Bett won Kenya gold in the men’s 5,000m at the 2010 World Junior Championships in Canada, the last time Kenya claimed the overall title in the Under-20 event. The 25-year-old, who is also the 2009 World Youth 3,000m silver medallist, made a strong return from a recurring knee injury for his exploits in Nairobi. Bett will battle among others experienced Emmanuel Kiprono Bett, who has represented Kenya twice as a junior at the 2013 World Cross Country in Poland, and 2014 Africa Cross Country Championships in Kampala. Bett will also be going for his second victory this season, having won the second leg in Sotik, before waylaying a strong field to triumph at Wareng Cross Country last weekend.  Londiani’s Sandra Chebet, who won in Nairobi and Sotik’s winner Ivyne Chepkemoi will battle in women’s 10km race. Bett, who has represented Kenya twice as a junior at the 2013 World Cross Country in Poland and 2014 Africa Cross Country Championships in Kampala, claimed victory in the men’s race in 28 and 04.04. Miriam Cherop, the 2016 Africa Cross Country Junior champion, is on the roll. She will be the girls to beat in women’s Ubnder-20 6km contest, having finished sixth in Nairobi to win in Sotik. Cherop also won in Ndalat Gaa. 
 