Mumbi Maina is a prolific actress, having starred in shows such as Mali and How To Find A Husband, and movies like the award-winning Mbithi Masya-directed Kati Kati. More recently, she has a recurring role in the Netflix-produced sci-fi drama, Sense8. 1. What is the one annoying question that you often get asked in interviews? (laughs) When or how did you get into acting? I get asked that a lot, and it can be annoying because it is a question I have answered many times before. It’s a question who’s answer you will get if you did a quick Google search about me. I attended a workshop in 2011 where Caroline Mutoko talked about how she does media interviews: she asks for the questions beforehand, because there are some questions she just will not answer any more.  2. I am also sure that everyone asks you about Sense8. Oh definitely. It’s my biggest role yet, so I expect it. It’s also my first international gig outside Africa. There is definitely a marked difference in my current role compared to others I have had, mostly in terms of structure and budget. It isn’t necessarily our (Kenya’s film sector) fault though, that we fall below par compared to other markets; there’s enough money and enough ideas to create superb content, it’s just that some of the people running the show are greedy. Producers keep all the money to themselves and don’t pay those involved and then everyone wonders why there are no new productions. This is one of the reasons I went into production.  3. And how is that going? I got into it two years ago but it didn’t work out how I envisioned it; I am still recovering, but I am planning a return. There are a couple of concepts I have in mind already for a few series’ and short films.  4. What is next on your acting plate? I can’t talk about my next project at the moment – we’re just wrapping up Sense8 – but I can say that it will be international as well, shot in London to be specific.  5.What reviews did you get for that controversial scene on Sense8? The reviews were great. The great thing about international auditions is that you are told, right from the audition stage, what you’re going to be asked to do. If there will be nudity, you will be asked whether you are comfortable with it. I was a bit concerned about how my family would take that sex scene, but once I really met the character I was playing, Zakia, and got to know her and how important her story is, I felt as if everything else was not as important. I felt this was a story that needed to be represented by someone like me; a Kenyan woman, playing this role. It stopped being about it being a sex scene. I watched it afterwards and I was proud. 
 