Two separate motions for removal of the Law Society of Kenya Council have been filed as political and personal differences threaten to consume the country’s premier bar association. Amid the ouster motions, the LSK Council has moved to scuttle the motions by cancelling the society’s special general meeting that was scheduled to take place on November 11 at the Hilton Hotel, Nairobi. The SGM was originally called to have the members adopt the regulations in line with the new LSK Act. “Take notice that the council in its meeting held on October 31 resolved to cancel the notice dated October 10 and the intended special general meeting thereof. This notice serves to communicate this resolution to all the membership,” LSK chief executive Mercy Wambua informed the members last Thursday. REMOVE It was during the SGM that the ouster motions were to be tabled. The two motions have been filed by Mr Murigi Kamande and Mr Michael Osundwa Sakwa, both active lawyers. While Mr Kamande’s motion targets only the LSK President Isaac Okero, Mr Sakwa’s seeks to remove the entire council. The council is the governing body of LSK and is currently composed of Mr Okero, vice president Faith Waigwa, Francis Masika, Alex Gatundu, Harriette Chiggai, Ms Grace Okumu, Godfrey Kitiwa, Edwin Sifuna, Dorothy Jemator, David Njoroge, Alan Kosgey, Ann Nyukuri and Jane Masai. CANCELLED The council has said that the motions seeking their ouster were filed inappropriately, with Mr Okero hinting at an attempt by some lawyers to disrupt the agenda of the SGM that now stands cancelled. In the first notice of motion received at LSK offices on October 24, Mr Kamande wants the LSK membership to suspend the president Isaac Okero, accusing him of misuse and misappropriation of funds, abuse of office, lack of capacity to head the society and divisions among council members. Mr Sakwa on the other hand has complained about the failure by the current leadership to resolve the matter of the proposed LSK International Arbitration Centre. “The council has failed or refused to refund or account for members’ contributions for the construction of the centre,” said Mr Sakwa.  