Security has been beefed up at the Coast, and in particular in Lamu, ahead of the county’s annual cultural festival. Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet said security officers were on high alert to thwart any threat. “Those who are going there for the festivities should be assured of their security. We have beefed up security in the entire region to ensure both local and international visitors enjoy the fete,” said Mr Boinnet in an interview on Friday. FESTIVAL The 17th edition of the festival is expected to attract more visitors than last year, where more than 10, 000 domestic and international visitors thronged the county. Last year’s event was termed the “best ever” with businessmen, especially hoteliers, boat operators and small-scale traders and fishermen getting huge profits. This year’s event starts next Wednesday. Meanwhile, government spokesman Eric Kiraithe on Friday urged residents to remain vigilant, noting the country still faced threats of terrorism. “As our armed forces continue to protect this country from every threats both internal and external, we are asking the citizens not to drop the usual vigilance because the threat of terrorism is still with us,” said Mr Kiraithe during a press briefing in Mombasa. “The country is stable and the government has confidence in the professionalism and competence of all state institutions to continue performing their functions in the best interest of the republic of Kenya,” he added. KDF A multi-agency security team is in force to deal with any situation that arises. Last week, a security team conducting operations in Lamu’s Boni Forest said they had intensified the search for Al-Shabaab militants after a number of terrorists were killed by the Kenya Defence Forces (KDF). The area is under tight surveillance currently. Since the beginning of the secondary school exams this week, more police have been deployed in Lamu and Tana River counties, which are the hardest hit by insecurity in the entire Coast region. Some regions in the two counties are still under curfew that was imposed months ago.  