Politics has besieged the economy for the most part of this year and politicians have had a field day spreading risks that continue to damage the pillars of economic growth and social transformation.  Some politicians continue to prey on the minds of vulnerable individuals and communities, making them believe that there is a perfect correlation between the socio-economic state of vulnerable Kenyans and the actions of the government.  The most peddled myth is that the disgruntled lot, particularly youth, suffer from social and economic exclusion perpetrated by the government. Such hype is likely to prevail. As supporters of President Uhuru Kenyatta, who was declared the winner of the October 26 repeat presidential poll, hope that the country is finally back on track, those backing Mr Raila Odinga, the leader of the opposition National Super Alliance, remain defiant.  GANGS After losing the August 8 election and withdrawing from the repeat poll, Mr Odinga is now advocating civil disobedience, which breeds violent encounters that continue to dampen economic prospects.  What is emerging is an unpleasant scenario in which the business community and workers are being intimidated by gangs mobilised under the guise of fighting for democracy, social and economic rights. The businesses targeted in the recent wave of attacks include agents of Safaricom, the leading telecommunications firm, and Equity Bank, the largest bank. Both occupy a special place in the lives and hearts of millions of Kenyans who have reaped the benefits of financial and technological inclusion.  Both are also leading contributors to government revenue, making significant contributions to national development. Targeting firms that have a demonstrated social and economic impact is a strange political strategy. It runs counter to the government’s strategy of deepening financial inclusion by expanding financial and mobile technology services to areas and communities where there is low penetration. VIOLENCE Youth engaging in political violence are easily mobilised with handouts, not because the economy isn’t generating enough jobs, but because they have been conditioned to be choosy. This attitude causes production losses, particularly in the rural economy, during campaigns when youth hang around market centres waiting for quick cash. While the government invests in services, the people and their leaders have an obligation to defend their sources of livelihood.  Some farmers have successfully lobbied for better terms for their produce, while others have failed to stop the destruction of their only means of survival.  A classic case is how farmers in central Kenya, Rift Valley and western Kenya have protected their tea, coffee and maize from cartels and lobbied the government whenever their interests are threatened. This year, smallholder tea growers will be paid a record Sh60 billion by the Kenya Tea Development Agency, which earned Sh78 billion from tea sales during the year ending June 30. Maize growers in Rift Valley are also upbeat about maximising their returns, after three years of drought that curtailed output and earnings.  CORRUPTION The farmers are deepening their participation in economic and social transformation. In contrast, the economy of western Kenya has declined due to the collapse of its key sources of income, including sugar and cotton. The tragedy is that sugarcane farmers have long been subjected to hardships of none or irregular payments for their produce as factories were looted. Even though corruption in the sugar sector has reached critical red, local leaders don’t talk about it, presumably because their political survival benefits from the proceeds of graft and money laundering. Deepening economic and social inclusion starts with a commitment by leaders to inculcate the values of productive work in youth. Leaders must be champions of the protection of activities that put food on the table for their followers. Mr Warutere is a director of Mashariki Communications Ltd. ptwarutere@gmail.com 
 