The announcement by the National Super Alliance (Nasa) of a boycott of the products and services of three major companies, Safaricom, Bidco and Brookside, heralds a new frontier in the fight for greater democratisation. While Kenya is renowned for being an early adopter of innovations, the country had never attempted a boycott of company products as a strategy to agitate for change. On this count alone, Nasa scores a big win for versatility and astuteness. EFFECTS Online, depending on which side one supports, the reactions have been varied, with Jubilee Party supporters scoffing at the futility of the move. But Nasa adherents laud their leaders as having shown true grit and brought the fight to Jubilee’s doorstep and the companies seen to be sympathetic to it. While it is too early to even discuss the effects of the boycott, it would be suicidal to altogether write it off as yet another doomed opposition strategy. Mr Kimani Ngunjiri, the MP for Bahati in Nakuru County, has, in fact, christened it thus. His main argument being that Nyanza people do not buy Brookside products and should, therefore, not threaten the firm with a boycott. He sees this as a defeatist move by the opposition. I disagree. This may well be the masterstroke that gets Jubilee to realise the seriousness of the standoff between the two rival political groups. Until now, the opposition has mainly fought its battles on the streets. These have mostly featured the rank and file of their supporters. However, with the boycott, Nasa is bound to benefit from the windfall of a previously reluctant participant, the middle class. MIDDLE CLASS Most people agree that the Kenyan middle class would never take to the streets to agitate for any cause. Reason? They have jobs to go to, car loans and mortgages to repay, careers that are on an upward trajectory and, they consider the streets too dangerous and unpredictable for their very well-polished selves, sorry, shoes. The boycott changes all of this. First, because it is bloodless and there is no teargas involved, you can trust a considerable part of the Nasa middle class to fully participate. Pictures of practically empty supermarket milk shelves, save for Brookside milk, have been prevalent on social media in the past few days. Secondly, the boycott provides an opportunity for the Nasa middle class to howl at the top of their digital voices (just log into Twitter and Facebook to understand what I mean) that they are in the “resistance” just like their counterparts in the trenches. Third, the boycott presents a perfect opportunity for the middle class to get back at some of the companies they’ve previously complained about but not gathered enough courage to ditch. According to Nasa, many more firms will be boycotted. RIVALS Brookside controls over 70 per cent of the dairy market and to maintain this dominance, it buys out serious competitors. With its business shrewdness, its strategy has been to acquire rivals but leave their various brands intact. The result is that when you visit your local supermarket, you’re most likely to come across more than 10 dairy brands competing against one another and all of which belong to Brookside. Given its huge market share, the boycott will certainly negatively affect the company’s sales. Bidco makes several brands of soaps and edible oils. Most supermarket shelves are so replete with Bidco products that by the time Nasa supporters identify all of them, the firm will have moved quite some stock. However, the Nasa middle class brigade (the WhatsApp Branch) is developing digital posters exposing the products. Bidco products target the general population and this boycott will leave it highly exposed. It also exports products to neighbouring countries through Nasa zones. BIGGER PROBLEMS It is a no brainer that it is going to be a big challenge for any National Resistance Movement (NRM) supporter to fully shun Safaricom. The reason for this is M-Pesa. The mobile money service provider is ubiquitous all over the country. So while the supporters may boycott the company’s calls and texts, keeping off M-Pesa is not going to be ease. But even with the seemingly impregnable M-Pesa service, Safaricom still has bigger problems. This is because the firm has had a love/hate relationship with its subscribers both in Nasa and Jubilee. Should the herd mentality take root and the boycott catches on, Safaricom could bleed subscribers from both political camps. Any company that Nasa targets should start thinking about risk mitigation strategies. Mr Ohaga is a media tutor and social commentator.  