Bongo actress Elizabeth ‘Lulu’ Michaels, who once drove Kenyan gospel musician Bahati crazy with love, has said that she will not be appealing against her two-year jail term sentence that was delivered early this week by a court in Dar es Salaam after she was found guilty of manslaughter. The judge found Lulu guilty of the death of her former boyfriend who was a celebrated bongo movie star Steven Kanumba who died in April 7, 2012 after a quarrel with the actress. It’s long been speculated that the reason for the quarrel was Lulu’s infidelity. As several celebrities including Diamond Platinumz, Wema Sepetu, Ali Kiba took to social media to show support for the young lass, dedicated lawyer Peter Kibatala vowed to appeal the decision. However, Lulu has now asked him to stand down because she has made up her mind to serve the whole term, terming it as Gods’ plan. The revelations have been made by fellow artiste and close friend Muhsin Awadh.“Kusema ukweli Lulu alijua lolote linaweza kutokea ila la kufungwa ni kama hakulipa kipaumbele sana, jaji alipomaliza kusoma hukumu alishtuka kama sisi wengine wote lakini ajabu alikuwa wa kwanza kurudi katika hali ya kawaida na kutoa kauli za ujasiri”. (The truth is , Lulu was ready for any outcome of the trial but the jail sentence still caught her off guard.  When the judge finished delivering the judgement, she was shocked like everyone else but surprisingly she was the first to pull herself together and courageously said and I qoute...” Awadh said before going on to quote Lulu:“Sipingani na maamuzi ya Mungu, haya ni maamuzi yake na nimekubaliana nayo. Ana makusudi yake kunipa hiki kilichotokea leo. Acheni miaka miwili siyo mingi, sitaki kupingana na mahakama , naheshimu maamuzi ya mahakama, acheni nitumikie kifungo change.” “I can’t question the will of God. I fully accept his will. There is a reason he’s putting me through this. Guys let me serve the two years as they are not so many. I don’t want to fight with the court. I respect the court’s ruling so let me serve my sentence.”      
  
Bongo actress Elizabeth ‘Lulu’ Michaels once drove Kenyan gospel musician Bahati crazy with love