Trouble seems to be brewing between Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu and his Deputy James Nyoro over the running of the county. Mr Waititu’s claim at a church event attended by Deputy President William Ruto and a host of MPs in Kabete on Sunday that his deputy was “making too much noise” suggests that all may not be well with their political union. Mr Nyoro was among four gubernatorial contestants who shelved their bids in favour of Mr Waititu. “Let me now introduce my deputy, who is Mr Nyoro, although he scolds me a lot,” said Mr Waititu, throwing the congregation into disbelief — perhaps because the situation was previously unthinkable. DISAPPOINTED Mr Nyoro also expressed his disappointment with his boss over what he described as washing their dirty linen in public.  He said even though at times they may have internal differences, those should not be made public. “Your Excellency the Deputy President, I never thought my governor would say that (about the differences),” said Mr Nyoro.  “Sometimes there will be small issues here and there, but it’s not a must they be made public, and so I never thought that he would go public with our small issues,” said Dr Nyoro. RUTO'S CAUTION Seemingly irked by the incident, after the church service, Mr Ruto summoned the two and cautioned them against engaging in unnecessary infighting, which he said could embarrass the home county of President Uhuru Kenyatta. “Before the Deputy President left, he called them and asked them what the issue was,” a source privy to the happenings told Nation Tuesday, adding that Mr Waititu promised the DP that it will never happen again. Prior to joining politics in 2012, Mr Nyoro worked with the Rockefeller Foundation and briefly served as the agriculture adviser to the presidency before joining the Bill Gates Foundation.  In the run-up to the August 8 elections, he joined Mr Waititu’s camp which was popularly United for Kiambu, ousting former governor William Kabogo. KABOGO Mr Nyoro’s union with Mr Waititu was seen as a move aimed at increasing their chances of removing Mr Kabogo who was grappling with allegations of arrogance, hard-headedness and incompetence. Pundits opined that Mr Nyoro’s entry into Mr Waititu’s camp was meant to bring his professionalism in the running of the county due to his vast managerial skills and experience. Recently during the swearing in of the county executive committee members, Mr Waititu said even though differences will always emerge between them, they will always solve them amicably. 
  
Attempts by Governor Kabogo to discredit Kabete MP eventually became a cropper.