Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko’s decision to clear medical bills for survivors of police brutality in Migori has been met with criticism from a local politician. Mr Sonko cleared the arrears for all the five patients who had been detained at St Joseph Ombo Mission Hospital after they failed to raise close to Sh270, 000. 'INSULT' The five sustained serious gunshot wounds and soft tissue injuries from beatings by police in chaos that broke out after the repeat presidential poll last Friday. This was the second time in two months Mr Sonko was helping victims of accidents and police brutality in Migori. Last month, he cleared the bill of a woman injured after a truck veered off the road and killed her children, injuring her seriously. But Uriri MP Mark Nyamita on Thursday dismissed Mr Sonko’s assistance, terming it an "insult" to the victims. Migori leaders believe the government sent police to kill supporters of Nasa leader Raila Odinga and, therefore, any assistance from Mr Sonko, a staunch supporter and defender of President Kenyatta, is not welcome. “I have information that Jubilee through Nairobi Governor Sonko is dishing out money to hospitals in Nyanza where our people are recuperating from ostensibly to cater for their bills of the victims of jubilee-sanctioned police brutality,” said Mr Nyamita. “We are telling Sonko to keep his blood-stained money to himself. Let him use the money to pay Nairobi county employees who have gone for months without pay or better still use it to clean the city, which is chocking under garbage, or he can equally use it to buy good manners.” BILL During the protests, one person was killed after he was shot in Oruba, within Migori town. The hospital bill was accumulating and the patients could not settle it when they appealed for help— prompting the Nairobi governor to come to their rescue. The hospital administration had detained the patients as they were unable to clear the bills. A total of Sh263,341 was settled through Sonko Rescue Team, which heard the victims’ pleas through media reports. It is also reported that the victims were also given Sh10,000 each apart from the paid bills. Speaking to press at Ombo Hospital after the bill was settled, Mr David Ouma Okong’o thanked Sonko for coming to their rescue. “We are grateful to Sonko for settling our bill as we can now get out and start our normal lives,” Okong’o said. Mr Jacob Odhiambo Owuor said he was glad that they were going to resume his normal life though he was still in pain. According to hospital administrators, Mr Bernard Ojwang’ owed them Sh57,000, Mr David Okong’o Sh82,805 and Mr Collins Ochieng’ Sh57,235. 'LET-DOWN' Mr Jacob Odhiambo and Mr Harrison Ochieng’ owed Sh 44,901 and Sh 11,120, respectively. Ford-Kenya Migori branch chairman Samuel Migore blamed Migori leaders for their laxity in rescuing the victims. “Migori politicians are a big let-down to the people. Many people are nursing bullet wounds and bills are accumulating yet no one seems to care. County leaders should stand out and be counted,” said Mr  Migore. He said the residents fought for the National Super Alliance (Nasa) in streets but the leaders were nowhere when they needed their help. Last week, Migori Governor Okoth Obado visited Migori County Referral Hospital and paid hospital bills for three patients. It is estimated that over 50 people in Migori are still nursing bullet wounds in various hospitals in the county in the aftermath of the violent protests.   Kenya Red Cross has set up a blood donation centre in Migori town.