The proprietor of a school that was deregistered over examination malpractice is crying foul over the government’s decision. The Ministry of Education deregistered St Theresa Girls Senior School in Gilgil, Nakuru earlier this month after the school’s principal was found guilty of opening examination materials before time. It is believed that this was a deliberate attempt to interfere with the examination material and share it with students in advance. Teachers were also found coaching KCSE candidates at the school a week before the exams against the Ministry of Education rules. MALICE The owner of the school Bob Yugi, a retired military officer, who is also the school’s director, says he reads malice in the decision “to turn his massive investment into smoke with a stroke of a pen”. “It is sad that my 30 years of investment and sacrifice to this nation as a military officer is being reduced to nothing because of a mistake of an individual who is yet to be identified,” said Colonel (Rtd) Yugi. Yugi said he established St Theresa Academy and St Theresa Girls Senior School in 2009 on a 12-acres prime land. “I have not invested in anything else in all my military career apart from these schools and it would be a big disaster as I cannot utilise the infrastructure for any other use.” “What do I do with a dining hall worth Sh7 million,” he posed. He said he is ready to carry the cross if proper investigations are conducted and culprits arrested to face the the law. “I would never compromise my integrity as a retired senior military officer and that is why I am insisting the individual responsible should be arrested instead of condemning the entire institution,” he said. FAIR HEARING However, he said the institution should be accorded fair hearing. "In any natural justice you should not take action before the affected persons are given a chance to defend themselves," said Mr Yugi. He claimed that his school was framed because of a WhatsApp message that purportedly originated from the school showing a picture of a container with exam materials. “Police should arrest persons who wrote the message which has brought a lot of mental torture to innocent girls,” said Mr Yugi. He said some suspects were arrested and taken to Gilgil Police Station and pointed an accusing finger to different schools. “Our school was not mentioned anywhere,” he said. He said he will seek legal redress if he is not given a fair hearing. The fate of more than 400 learners, teaching and non-teaching staff hangs in the balance as the due date for the institution to surrender its registration certificate nears. According to Education Principal Secretary Belion Kipsang’ deregistration takes effect from December 1. However, the ministry has assured parents that it will assist the displaced students get alternative placement in other schools.  