If your organisation is going through a painfully complex situation such as restructuring; or your country is so ethnically divided that conflict is its second nature, then appointing a female leader will help sail you through, according to researchers. A myriad of scientific and social research indicates that women outperform their male counterparts in situations that call for deep cooperation and collaboration. Laboratory experiments and assessment studies show that women tend to lead with a more participative democratic style than men. PARTICIPATION This evidence has not only been demonstrated in the national leadership level of post-conflict countries, but also in the corporate sector. This could be because a woman’s mere presence in a key leadership position inspires a new generation of participation and inclusion, attributable to pre-conceived gender role and psychology. Despite this, politically, and in modern history, more men have largely played the role of national leader. ECONOMY But as the world becomes more conflict-ridden, should we consider voting more women to the highest positions of power? Maybe, if prosperity is what we desire. In her research, Katherine Phillips, and others, in the Journal of International Affairs, 2013, established that more women political leaders equal more prosperity. After observing and studying national leaders in 139 nations over five decades the researchers established that ethnically diverse nations benefited economically from a female national leader. When women are elected to office in countries with internal unrest, these economies experience a significant boost compared with results under male leaders. ANGELA MERKEL Notable examples of women excelling in fragile countries include Liberia’s Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, and Angela Merkel in post-reunification of Germany. Michelle Bachelet led Chile as it emerged from repressive regimes, and Prof Wangari Maathai fought and won against iron-clad leadership to save Kenya miles of forests. If in doubt, we can learn from earlier civilisation that had a surplus of formidable women national leaders such as Cleopatra of Egypt and Julia Augusta of Rome. In fact, it is in the advent of equal voting rights that we start seeing a shortage of female national leaders, with only a few emerging sporadically such as Margaret Thatcher of the United Kingdom. PROFITThe presence of female leaders in the top corporate ranks has had a positive effect on performance. A World Economic Forum research established that companies with at least 30 per cent of women leaders see a six per cent increase in profit. If women leadership brings so much economic gain and stability, why then do we still have such a huge leadership gender gap? Societal prescribed cultural norms, stereotypes and perceptions have painted women as inferior leaders, wrought with emotions and easily distracted. These have been entrenched by art and media. INHIBITIONS Then, women may exhibit little belief in their ability, thus choosing to pass over leadership opportunities. While these two reasons are not exhaustive, they could be a part of the reason we are confronted with the same data every year. Africa, where 52 per cent of population is female, should take a lead, as it is evident that it is in its interest to work towards greater inclusion of women as paid workers and leaders. Where policy fails, perhaps, we can walk back to the time of Cleopatra and start righting the wrongs we may have done along the way. If scientific evidence is anything to go by, women need not ask for “seats at the table”, but should arise, believe in themselves and take their place, as 80 years is too long a wait. Ms Mbiruru is a communication specialist based in Nairobi. Ann.Mbiruru@yahoo.com  