Electoral commission Chairman Wafula Chebukati has dismissed calls for the resignation of commissioners and the secretariat. Speaking for the first time after the Supreme Court upheld the election of President Uhuru Kenyatta, Mr Chebukati on Wednesday said the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) officials were in office legally. 2 POLLS Mr Chebukati, who spoke on the sidelines of the annual Jurists Conference at Serena Beach Hotel in Mombasa, said the IEBC did a commendable job presiding over two elections in three months. He said they were waiting for the apex court’s full judgment to tell the country the commission’s roadmap and the way forward in terms of reforms. “The Supreme Court confirmed the election of October 26 was done within the law and constitution,” said Mr Chebukati. Once they receive the judgment, he said, they shall deal with any grey areas in law as they seek to boost IEBC’s systems and processes. But Kenya Human Rights Commission Executive Director George Kegoro said Mr Chebukati needs to tell the country when he and his commissioners will vacate office. “Chebukati should put in place a transition plan, the country will need a long time to prepare for the next election preferably without the current IEBC,” he said. RAILA Separately, Devolution Cabinet Secretary Mwangi Kiunjuri warned opposition leaders against disrespecting the Supreme Court's decision that upheld President Kenyatta’s re-election. Mr Mwangi urged National Super Alliance (Nasa) leader Raila Odinga to accept the court’s decision and take up his opposition role. He made the remarks during the official opening of his ministry’s monitoring and evaluation week at Nyali Sun Africa Beach Hotel in Mombasa. "Respect the rule of law and Constitution, opposite of it is anarchy. The opposition should seriously take their oversight role, we are ready for reforms. The opposition should follow the law and respect the rights of all Kenyans,” said Mr Kiunjuri. The CS warned politicians against what he termed as divisive utterances. “They (utterances) might affect economy, we have to accept challenges. We have a government and a President in place,” said Mr Kiunjuri.   He maintains Uhuru Kenyatta is illegitimate president.