Public universities have been grounded for three weeks because of a lecturers’ strike. A couple of them sent students away to avoid keeping them idle on campus. At the heart of the dispute is non-payment of higher salaries negotiated and agreed early in the year; itself an outcome of a previous strike. For the better part of this year, students in the public universities have had a raw deal. The campuses have been closed several times, either due to strikes or tensions arising out of the long period of electioneering. SALARIES It is these disruptions and other shortcomings that have sullied the reputation of the institutions. Now, the National Treasury has released some Sh5.2 billion to the Education ministry for disbursement to the universities to pay the outstanding salaries and allowances. It is disingenuous, though, for the Treasury to wait for so long to release the funds when so much damage has been done. This should now end the pay dispute. However, the whole question of funding and management of public universities and for that matter, the entire spectrum of higher education needs thorough debate to find an appropriate model for the country. The frequent strikes by lecturers or students are manifestations of deeper problems. EDUCATION Education Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i has floated the proposal of employing a cadre of university staff on contract; reserving tenured lectureship to top academicians and researchers. This is the practice in countries with a longer history of university education. Informing this is the fact that the universities have bloated workforces eating into resources that would otherwise be used to enhance academic programmes and research. Predictably, this will be challenged by the unions and for good reasons. Secondly, there has been discussion about introducing unit-cost model of university funding; where students are charged the real cost of the programmes they pursue instead of the current practice where all pay a flat rate. These proposals must be discussed candidly. The current model of university education is not sustainable. It must be re-examined.  