It’s a big day on Saturday at Thika Sports Club as its par 72 course, currently in an excellent condition, hosts the annual Kahawa Sukari Golf tournament. A record field of 260 golfers, the highest in this event so far, were drawn to fight it out for a number of prizes being offered. A one day tournament, the Kahawa Sukari golf tournament was started in 2014 by the residents of Kahawa Sukari estate who are members of Thika Sports Club. It was started to promote the game of golf as well as support the club’s golf calendar. Usually played over the month of November, the event encouraged a number of people to start playing golf at Thika in addition to also promoting and encouraging junior golfing and other social activities at the club. Besides the golf tournament, the club management has over the years run a mini-junior golf training programme conducted by the club pros. This year’s junior programme which started on Thursday ends Friday. However, on Saturday there will be a Kids day out for non junior golfers that includes a swimming gala. On the main golf event, among those drawn include inaugural winner Moses Gatonye, 2015 champion David wa Matano, and last year’s winner Mariah Muthee. Over the past three years, the winning score has been 40 points and above. This score is likely to replicated this weekend going by the current course condition. During last weekend’s Lady Captain’s prize, Gatonye carded 38 to beat David Matano on countback for the second prize though well behind men winner J.K.Mbugua who carded an amazing 45 points. Away in Eldoret, some of the country’s top amateurs are expected to battle it out for this year’s Manchester Salver, after the Kenya Open Amateur championship won by Nyali’s Daniel Nduva. Those who travelled to Eldoret include Vet Lab’s Edwin Mudanyi, Robinson Owiti and Mike Kisia, Railway’s Samuel Njoroge and George Felix, Royal’s Dennis Saikwa, and Limuru’s John Karichu and Paul Muchangi. At Royal Nairobi, 15 of the country’s top professional golfers are among a huge field registered for the Mulembe Golfing Society event which draws its membership mainly from Western region.  The pros will be playing for a Sh100,000 purse courtesy of Mulembe chairman Sammy Itemere, who is the PS, ICT and immediate past chairman of Royal Nairobi Golf Club. Leading the field will be the long hitting Dismas Indiza who will be challenged by among others, Kopan Timbe, Nelson Mudanyi, Nelson Simwa, David Wakhu, Anil Shah, David Opati and Justus Madoya among others. The amateurs, who are drawn from various clubs in the country, include Nyali’s Eric Nyongesa, and Lumatete Muchai, Muthaiga’s Evans Vitisia, and Kakamega Golf Club chairman Eliud Siganga.  
 