Growing demand for affordable accommodation by visitors at the coast has seen  an increase in fully furnished apartments and villas. The apartments and villas, which are drawing large numbers of local and foreign tourists, are preferred mostly by the local middle class. Sunset Paradise in Shanzu, Mombasa, which offers such facilities, has been receiving more than 7,000 bookings annually. The development, which comprises 60 four-bedroom, 10 three-bedroom, and 10 two-bedroom apartments, charges per unit rather than per head like hotels do. The property’s director, Mr Innocent Mugabe, told DN2 that the units had led to an increase  in domestic tourism. The units have a fully equipped kitchen, a dining room and living room. “It is very convenient for families visiting the coast with children since you have the option of preparing your own meals or eating at our restaurant,” said Mr Mugabe. In addition, it allows clients to receive guests at no extra cost. The charges range between Sh10,000 and Sh20,000, depending on the number of bedrooms. “This form of accommodation is friendly, especially to budget travellers. For only Sh100,000, a family can enjoy a week-long holiday, with all the expenses met,” he said. “One can hire a four- or five-bedroom villa for Sh90,000 per month,” said Mr Mugabe, adding that online marketing had boosted the business. He noted that with the evolution of tourism, furnished apartments are the future of accommodation, thanks to its flexibility. “People want to make decisions without restrictions like those imposed by hotels, where all meals must  be taken at set times. Here, we give you any meal whenever you want it. People want to enjoy their holiday without restrictions,” he said. FURNISHED UNITS He pointed out that although it is impossible to capture the whole market, more than 60 per cent of travellers now opt for furnished units. Some of the old hotels in the region like Shaza Apartments and Cowrie Shells have  are also adapted this form of accommodation, leading to increased competition. “This form of accommodation is still not very common but those who learn about it love it,” he said. He said they  target both the domestic and regional markets, especially those visiting the area for extended periods, adding that they get full-bookings during peak seasons and holidays.  The landscaping and location of the hotel are additional attractions, offering a pleasant view as one enjoys the amenities such as a private outdoor swimming pool with a sun terrace and garden. Many tourists like the location because of it is serene  and is close to the Mombasa Marine Park, Mombasa town, Bamburi, Nyali, and Mtwapa. It also has 24-hour security. “Security is key and whenever people are looking for a destination, it is one of the factors they look out for,” said Mr Mugabe. Mr James Ouma, a domestic tourist, said he prefers furnished units, especially during the school holidays when he travels with his family.  “I feel comfortable in such an environment because it feels like a home away from  home. It is a great experience  because it offers  a bonding session,” Mr Ouma said. He noted that it is affordable and is an incentive to local tourism, which had largely been left to the more affluent in society.  Coming up next to the apartments is a building that will accommodate conference facilities which, Mr Mugabe says, will give an all-round experience to their clients who come for conferences. 
 