Hard work involving long hours of study, good teaching practices, discipline, support from parents and the fear of God were yesterday cited as the reasons behind the success of top schools and candidates in this year’s Kenya Certificate of Primary Education exams released on Tuesday. Separate interviews with heads of schools, teachers, candidates and parents revealed the efforts invested in the completion of the school curriculum and preparations for the examinations as the key to top performance. CRITICAL ROLE Ranging from schools that have set a record over the years in top performance such as Fred’s Academy in Meru County and first timers in the examinations such as Bethany Christian Academy in Matuga, Kwale, it was revealed that targeted study and long hours played a critical role in the success of candidates. Public schools such as PCEA Kathigiri Boarding primary school in South Imenti, Meru, attributed their top performance to covering the syllabus in time, discipline, determination and pupils’ high self-esteem, while Kisii’s Elsa Academy said its success was due to hard work and diligence. Nairobi’s Lakewood Schools and Tender Care Academy in Komarock estate cited investment in revision, while Nakuru County’s St Peter’s Elite School, Gilgil, attributed its achievement to discipline, organisation and time management. In Kakamega County, where the best performing candidate Goldalyn Kakuya sat her examinations, teachers said commitment to prayers and determination to achieve goals was the way to success. BEST BOY Mwangi Eugene Mburu 14, from Effort Junior academy scored 446 marks to emerge the top candidate in Kirinyaga County and the best boy nationally. Parents and teachers poured into the streets of Kerugoya town in celebrations on learning that the pupil topped in the county, known to be an academic giant. Mburu said he was at home when he was informed by his parents that he had passed so well and that he was the top KCPE pupil in the region. “I was so excited when I heard the good news,” he said. As he joined the celebrations, Mburu said he wants to be an engineer, adding that his dream school is Alliance Boys High School. The school director, Mr John Kabui, attributed the excellent performance to team work. “ We worked as a team and that is why we produced the best pupil in the region,” he said. At Jufred Boarding Primary School, Ephy Kiragu Njoka, 14, scored 444 marks and was the second best in the region. Njoka wants to become a lawyer after completing his studies. At Kutus Municipality Boarding Primary School, Wanjiku Githii scored 436 marks to emerge the top girl in the region. ACADEMY The school’s operations manager, Mr Antony Wachira, said six pupils managed to get 400 marks and above in KCPE.“We have done well in the examination. We are among the schools which are leading in KCPE in this area,” he said.Other schools that did well are Shirikisho Mwea Academy, Alber- Kutus, Kerugoya Municipality and Geoff The top pupil in Nairobi in this year’s KCPE, Nicole Oduor Mary, yesterday said she wants to be an aeronautical engineer.  The 14-year-old, who studied at Lakewood Schools in Komarock, who is believed to be the top pupil in Nairobi, said the prerequisite for good performance in examinations is following instructions from parents and teachers.  REVISION “I have always believed that respect and being organised in whatever someone does makes life easy,” said Nicole. She scored 445 marks to lead 52 others who scored over 400 marks among the school’s 305 candidates.  The school improved from last year, when 11 pupils got 400 marks and above.  Nicole said she had dedicated most of her time to revision but also attributed her success to the school’s dedication. She said the school offers a very conducive environment for studying. Nicole’s mother Masha Musigoye, who escorted her second-born child to the school to celebrate the results, said she had seen hard work and dedication from her daughter.  “She has always woken up early and she ensures that she completes her chores fast so that she can spare some time for study,” said Ms Musigoye. The casual labourer, whose son is at Maseno School, hopes the government will roll out free secondary education on time 
 