A fight broke out Monday at the Murang'a County Assembly when members stormed the office of the clerk, Mr Chris Kinyanjui, seeking to evict him on accusations of “under funding them". The MCAs, who were chanting "Kinyanjui must go”, accused the clerk and Speaker Nduati Kariuki of failing to release committee allowances and underfunding them in the recent sports tour of Machakos County. Fracas started in the morning when they demanded access to the assembly chambers to hold a special Kamukunji when the clerk informed them that they could not hold the meeting without the Speaker who is supposed to chair it. AGITATED The agitated members stood their ground insisting that they must hold the meeting even win the absence of the Speaker. After five hours in the chambers, they came out and again stormed into Mr Kinyanjui's office, this time with an aim of evicting him. They had also issued strict orders to the security officers to bar journalists from accessing the assembly. "You and the Speaker are the main [reason] why we have remained poor even after securing our seats. You must get out," one of the members told the Mr Kinyanjui. Police were called in to intervene after the unruly members started breaking desks and throwing around books and other office items. Murang'a North OCPD Johnstone Limo and Criminal Investigations Officer Japheth Maingi led a battalion of police officers to calm the situation. "We want you to follow the procedure and stop engaging in acts of lawlessness in the assembly," Mr Limo told the MCAs. After the members failed to heed pleas from the police bosses, they were ordered to leave Mr Kinyanjui's office. Mr Kinyanjui was later whisked away into safety by the officers. CAR LOANS Speaking to Daily Nation, the clerk said the actions of the MCAs are as a result of the Assembly declining to approve mortgage and car loans without security since it is against the law. "Now that I refused to grant them free money, they wanted to evict me out. This is public money and it must be protected," he said. Mr Kinyanjui said the members also demanded to be paid money for the extra days they went for games in Machakos County and since he objected to their proposal, they vowed to eject him from office. "They also claimed that the uniform and sports kits they were using were sub-Standard, but the whole issue is about money," he told Nation. He has vowed to take action against the 28 members, some of whom who were armed with hammers and clubs when they stormed his office. "They have breached the code of ethics and as such appropriate action will be taken against them after consultation with the Speaker and the police. None of the members spoke to journalists after the fracas. 
  
Clerk says MCAs agitated after failure to get mortgage and car loans without security.