Celebrations rang out across various primary schools in the coast region whose pupils posted 400 marks and above following the release of this year’s Kenya Certificate of Primary Education examination results. In Mombasa, Sewe Glen from Busy Bee School scored 436 marks followed by Abdulatif Swaleh Said of the same school with 433 marks. Speaking to the Nation at the school, a happy Glen attributed his success to hard work, ambition and determination. “As a leader I have led by example,” Glen, who was the school president, said on Tuesday. PERFORMERSSwaleh said support from parents and prayers led to his excellent performance. Swaleh Ramah of St Kevin Hill School, Nyali, got 432 marks followed by Favour Blessing who garnered 429 marks. At Nyali Primary, the two top pupils, Hanaan Amer and Ali Hussein, both scored 428 marks. Alwiya Omar Sharrif of Aga Khan primary got 425 marks, emerging top of her class with six of her classmates scoring above 400 marks. CLASSMATESAt Memon Academy, Amaan Mohamed Hasham and Fatma Swaleh Awadh scored 411 marks to emerge top. Four of their classmates scored more than 400 marks. Nasibo Jarso Dida, from Victory Junior Academy in Changamwe, scored 408 marks to emerge top in a class of 30 candidates. She dreams of joining Alliance Girls’ School and later study medicine. ALLIANCE GIRLSTaita-Taveta’s Voi St Jude Education Centre produced the best candidate, Hannah Mkabili Mwazumbi, who scored 426 marks. She attributed her success to hard work and fear of God. At Mwatate Preparatory School, Trevor Munga Sonje scored 424 marks while Samuel Kitonga of Redeemed Academy scored 420 marks. In Lamu, Manthura Farid Mohamed topped her class at Mkomani Girls’ Primary School with 408 marks. She hopes to join Alliance Girls and later train to become a pilot. BEST SCHOOLSAt Stone Town Academy in Lamu, Nuru Mohamed Abdalla emerged top with 408 marks. In Kwale, Amina Omar Mwamosi was the top student at Manuel Alexander Academy after scoring 429 marks and was followed by Eve Wanjiru Maina who had 411 marks. In Kilifi, Neema Wanjiku of Morning Glow Academy emerged victorious with 421 marks. Laura Nasimiyu Wanjala from Odole Primary in Tana Delta, Tana River County, scored 391 marks followed by Daud Khalid Mohamed of Hola Ama primary who managed 390 marks. Among the top schools in the region were Busy Bee, Aga Khan, St Jude Education Centre in Voi, St Kevin Hill and Nyali primary. Reports by Ahmed Mohamed, Diana Mutheu, Wachira Mwangi, Brian Ocharo, Kalume Kazungu and Galgalo Bocha   Lions Primary School, an all-time academic giant, also produced one of the top candidates.