The majority of academic giants in Nakuru, Nyandarua and Narok counties retained their positions, producing the best candidates in the 2017 KCPE exam. In Nakuru, St Peters’ Elite School – a private school in Gilgil sub-county – produced the best girls in the exam. Gathoni Macharia scored 447 marks followed by Sharon Muthoni who scored 444 marks. DISCIPLINE The school was turned into a dancing arena when it emerged that it had produced the top girls in the county. Moments after the results were announced by Education Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i, parents started trooping into the school as the good news spread. The school’s Principal, Mr Simon Mburu, said the institution had enrolled 113 candidates and more than 40 pupils scored over 400 marks. “When our learners come here we start with character formation and that is why the school has been performing well and we thank God,” Mr Mburu said, adding that the school covers the syllabus in good time. PRIDEThe school’s director, Mr Peter Macharia, said the results did not come as a surprise. “We expected to be the best in Nakuru County and our pupils did not disappoint,” Mr Macharia said. Professor Benard Njehia, who is the father of Sharon Muthoni who scored 444 marks, congratulated his last-born daughter for the excellent results. “I have had good news in the past but this time Sharon’s results made me a proud father,” Prof Njehia, who teaches Agricultural Economics at Kenyatta University, said. MOLO ACADEMYSong and dance broke out at Kagaki Primary School in Rongai after it emerged that the little-known school had produced eight of the top candidates in the county with 400 marks and above. Gideon Kiptoo led his class with 434 marks followed by Faith Chepng’eno who scored 432. Lions Primary School, an all-time academic giant, also produced one of the top candidates. Kamau Samuel Muturi scored 402 marks. Molo Academy also produced a top candidate, Christopher Macharia (420). HIGH SCORESLittle-known Sun and Shield School produced Sammy Kemboi who scored 433 marks. Moi Kabarak Primary School also recorded an impressive performance with at least 41 candidates getting 400 marks and above. They included Chebor Annete Jepkorir, 13, who scored 435 marks. In Naivasha, Little Friends Academy maintained its dominance with David Lemayian scoring 435 marks. SAMBURU In Narok, Brian Kipeng’eno from Harmony School was the best candidate with 422 marks. In Nyahururu County, Nyahururu 91 Municipality produced one of the best students, Wambugu Wesley Ndegwa, who scored 424 marks. In Samburu, Joshua Ndung’u of Loikas Primary School scored 403 marks. — Reports by Francis Mureithi, Eric Matara, Joseph Openda, Magdalene Wanja, Reitz Mureithi, George Sayagie, Macharia Mwangi, Steve Njuguna, Waikwa Maina, Liner Amuli, Godfrey Oundoh and Lamech Arisha  