Kenya’s Judiciary has been the subject of intense scrutiny because of the pivotal role it has assumed due to the numerous election disputes it has been handling this year. Even before the General Election in August, the courts had to deal with a multiplicity of intraparty nomination suits that arose from bungled primaries. But it is the precedence-setting presidential petition filed against President Uhuru Kenyatta by National Super Alliance leader Raila Odinga that captured the imagination of the public, locally and internationally. JUDGES That a court could overturn the election of a sitting president was monumental and, more than anything, it fortified the public’s faith in the Judiciary as much as it raised its profile and emboldened the judicial officers. Paradoxically, it is that boldness that opened the Judiciary to venomous attacks. None other than President Kenyatta railed at the judges, calling them choice names and issuing pointed threats which, collectively, aimed at circumscribing the power and independence of the Judiciary. AIDE INJURED It is not lost that in the heat of political campaigns, Deputy Chief Justice Philemona Mwilu’s aide was shot at in what looked as an attempt to scare her. All these provide the background for examining a statement by Supreme Court Judge Isaac Lenaola, who in a presentation at judges and magistrates’ colloquium in Kigali, has protested the assault of the Judiciary mainly by the political elite. Justice Lenaola has opened his heart and this is a matter that must be publicly debated. CRITICISMConsistent and concerted pummelling of the judges is intended to discredit, undermine and tear apart the independence of the Judiciary. Ultimately, the objective is to dismantle systems of checking against official decadences and that is the surest path to bedlam. Yet, it is not just the government that is guilty, the Opposition is equally culpable. In sum, the Judiciary must be insulated against organised attacks. Conversely, the Judiciary has to guard against vicissitudes that can bring the name of the institution into disrepute. A lot of gains have been made in transforming the Judiciary and much needs to be done. But we must resist the machinations to erode those advancements that were achieved through protracted struggles.  