Kenyans displayed a macabre sense of humour when they suggested how former Safaricom CEO Michael Joseph could get killed. Following a Wednesday story on an online news website that said Mr Joseph, now Kenya Airways’ board chairman, would like to die in Kenya, citizens did not hesitate to give him strategies on how to make that happen. Using the hashtag #HelpMJDieInKenya, many suggested ways in which the South African could die, mostly pegged on recent events. CHOLERA OUTBREAK These included cholera outbreaks, police brutality and killings of National Super Alliance protesters as well as children, the call by the opposition for boycott of particular brands, the killing of hundreds of cattle in Laikipia County and the murder of businessman Jacob Juma and IEBC digital chief Chris Msando. Among the first to post was activist Boniface Mwangi, who retweeted the website’s headline. Boniface Mwangi Verified account @bonifacemwangi tweeted: “That’s very easy. Just take part in a peaceful protest.”joji poji @jojeepoji posted: “I believe Safaricom Ltd knows some secrets about some political murders … Just call a presser and tell us who killed Msando and Jacob Juma ...I swear u won’t even leave that presser without a sniper’s bullet in your head.” Let_Taxes_Decide@Tax_B_Voluntary said: “Pretend to be a Maasai cow.” LOVE SAFARICOM “Take a walk in Kondele and proclaim your love for Safaricom,” said Arch. Martin Tairo@mmtairo. “Have this guy drive behind you, and you are gone!” @Aboubakar254 wrote and posted a photo of Mr Dennis Muigai Ngengi, the mysterious man reported to have witnessed the accident that claimed the life of Nyeri Governor Wahome Gakuru last month and the fatal October 21 Lake Nakuru chopper crash. “Wear a RESIST tee shirt and cap during Nasa demos then run aimlessly waving a polythene bag like a windsock,” said Ferdnand Muganda @fmuganda20. Milton Obo@MiltonObo posted: “Change your name to Pendo Moraa Mutinda Onyango Abdulrahman and sit on your balcony.” Anansi Talaea @AnansiTal recommended: “Go to Weston Hotel and have a three-course meal.” Leisha@leisha407 said, “Get a job as a bodyguard for a Supreme Court judge,” in reference to the shooting of Deputy CJ Philomena Mwilu’s bodyguard weeks ago. Odula jnr© @odula_odrey chipped in and said, “Go and deliver Brookside milk to Kisumu.” Ambassador Benjamin Kivulu @bkabeste gave his two cents, “Just visit Nairobi National Park, request the warden to have you kiss one of the lions.”  