Today I go regional. After we are handed our 16th Kenyan Premier League title in the weekend in Kisumu, of course we will paint the streets of Kisumu green. But after the celebrations, we will have to focus on the challenge ahead- the Africa Champions League and the Cecafa club championships. Honestly speaking, I know we have struggled at the continental level, but I do believe coach Dylan Kerr has the arsenal to take us to the group stage.  That will be a massive achievement for us because no other Kenyan club has managed that. If we win the title, I will swim in lake Victoria to Migingo Island and to declare it Kenyan territory in full view of Museveni’s soldiers. But that aside, I think Kerr needs to set his sights on winning the Cecafa club championships. The last time we played in Cecafa club championships, we were unlucky to lose in the final, but we had already made a big statement. That time WE were making a return after a long absence and we did not disappoint. Now we have a stronger team that can go all the way and lift the title. My request to my friend and senior in sports journalism Mr Nick Musonye is to try and bring the club championships to Kenya and make Kisumu the host city of the final match. Musonye has done so well in the face of adversity. Without sponsors nor support from governments save for Paul Kagame's Rwanda government, he has ensured Cecafa championships are held regularly. It will be great seeing the competition played in Kenya and a Kenyan club winning it. In fact, Musonye will have done our wannabe giants of Kenyan football AFC Leopards a chance to play at a bigger stage than just fighting relegation year in year out.  We will have a referendum to have Ingwe get a wild card and play in the competition.                                                               *** *** **** **** **** I cannot close without sending my wishes to our defender Karim Nizigiyimana a get-well-soon message. Nizigiyimana will be out of action for three months after he was badly injured in a game against Mathare United in Thika recently. I thank God he is out of danger and hope to see him back in action soon. What we need to learn from this injury is, KPL needs to ban that Thika ground. It is worse than a grazing field and if it is not banned, more players will be badly injured. Meanwhile, let us not go overboard in celebrations. We have lost far too many diehard Green Army members.  Look here, who will tell our grandchildren that we watched the match when the Mighty Gor Mahia lifted the cup in all those years? 
  
One step forward, two steps backwards. That is the motto for football management in Kenya.