The government will fully support the use of technology in enabling more children to access education, National Assembly‘s Education Committee chairperson Sabina Chege has said. “If there is use of technology, achieving quality performance and making it possible for more children to attend school, then this is something that should be emulated and supported,” said Ms Chege. She made the remarks at a forum in Nairobi that brought together legislators, innovators, advocates and partners in the education sector and which was organised by Bridge International academies. Already the government is implementing the Digital Literacy Program (DLP) in 23,951 public primary schools. This is aimed at enhancing learning through the use of digital technologies. The project targets to deliver over 1.2 million devices to the schools in addition to other investment in school infrastructure, teacher training, electricity connections and content development. HARNESS TECHNOLOGY At the moment, over 600,000 tablets have been delivered to several schools across the country. Bridge International academies Chief executive officer Jay Kimmelman, said he was pleased that Bridge is an education partner in Kenya, building capacity and capability in education and technology. “In the 21st century, technology has become an enabler of better schooling and development across the globe….there is no doubt that technology will play a pivotal role in empowering Kenyans over the next decade,’’ said Mr Kimmelman. He added: “Bridge’s use of innovative technology and content means it is seen as a natural partner for those who aim to harness technology to deliver learning gains for children. This innovative approach makes it an ideal partner for a government committed to achieving universal education, driving down the cost of education.” In the financial year starting July, a total of Sh13.4 billion has been set aside for deployment of tablets to school, development of digital content, building capacity of teachers, and roll out computer for primary and schools throughout the country. Bridge manages over 400 schools in Kenya for low-income areas such as slums where access to school is limited, cost of education is high and the quality is largely compromised.   Four countries want to train 10,000 doctoral students in science, engineering and technology.