Universities are racing against time to improve on instruction hours for school-based programmes (holiday learning) as directed by the regulator. The Commission for University Education (CUE) gave the institution six months from February to review the process leading to award of degree qualifications to ensure compliance. This means that the institutions have less than two months to implement the directive that will see major overhaul of delivery mode to the programme that is popular among teachers across the country. During the audit, holiday learning for teachers failed to meet the stipulated instruction hours and workload. NEW STRATEGY Already Mount Kenya University (MKU) has revamped its school-based learning programme for teachers and transformed it into a blended mode of delivery. It joins Egerton University which has transformed the programme into part-time courses while Kenyatta University (KU) has also introduced distance learning. The new approach at MKU combines institution-based study with distance learning, offering students more contact hours. It is known as “Distance and Institution-Based Learning (DIBL)” using face-to-face delivery during school holidays (April, August and December) augmented with online learning in between. Deputy Vice-Chancellor in charge of Academic and Research Affairs (ARA) Bibianne Waiganjo-Aida, said modern technology has made a huge difference at the university. “MKU recognises the need to provide quality and affordable education to all in need. In this regard, the university offers education through various modes of training that best fit the convenience of learners,” said Dr Waiganjo-Aida. 2,016 HOURS The MKU's distance and institution-based learning mode is supported by the institution’s management information system (MIS). Kenya National Union of Teachers (Knut) Secretary-General Wilson Sossion while addressing Distance and institution based learning (DIBL) students during an induction session in Thika main campus said the 2,016 hours surpasses the minimum standards.” The required contact hours by CUE are 1,680. “The Teachers Service Commission (TSC) should now address all pending cases of promotions with new higher qualifications before the General Election without further delay,” said Mr Sossion. Meanwhile MKU and Makerere University are set to launch an Executive Master of Business Administration (EMBA) programme in September. This follows a collaboration of the schools of business of both universities, which developed the curriculum.   The site will become a campus of the proposed Koitalel Samoei University College in Nandi County.