The National Super Alliance on Tuesday described KPMG's audit of the electoral register as shoddy and a major betrayal of Kenyans. National Super Alliance National Campaign Committee chairman Musalia Mudavadi accused the auditing company of taking Kenyans for a ride by performing "desktop clerical work" at a fee of millions of shillings. “The country, which hoped for a modicum of electoral reforms for a credible election, has been crudely shortchanged in a queer manoeuvre by the leadership of the IEBC (Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission), who appear compelled to push fishy Jubilee agenda all the time,” Mr Mudavadi, the ANC party leader, said in a statement. He said: “The more Nasa has pushed for better tendering to contract a credible firm, the more IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati and his CEO Ezra Chiloba parroted protests not dissimilar to those by Jubilee hawks Aden Duale, Kithure Kindiki, Kipchumba Murkomen and Johnson Sakaja, among others”. After 30 days of auditing the register as required by the electoral law, KPMG, which the IEBC had awarded the contract, said that the names of as many as one million dead people could be on the roll. The audit found 2.9 million inaccuracies in the principal register – 12,673 records whose gender and date of birth do not match, 785,871 whose birth dates do not match, 259,824 gender inconsistencies and 1.8 million inconsistencies in names and other permutation of particulars. The auditors recommended that IEBC validates 455,841 irregularities consisting of ID details that could not be found in the data provided by the National Registration Bureau; passport details that the Directorate of Immigration did not have; duplicate records; and records that are out of range in terms of ID numbers, date of birth or names appearing as numbers. The audit also pointed out legal and institutional challenges in the registration of births, deaths and issuance of IDs and passports, all of which compromise the voters’ roll. Nasa says virtually all the highlights painted by KPMG as major findings, including the dead voters, are common knowledge and could have been done by IEBC clerks. “KPMG was required to dig deeper and do a thorough audit, clearly fingering dead voters to provide for their deletion,” said Mr Mudavadi.   There are many legal and institutional challenges in registration of births and deaths.