As Louise places aromatic dishes of rice, kachumbari, fried spinach and gravy in front of us, I marvel at how calm and quiet everything is over here today, in stark contrast to the last time I visited her. How s your baby? I ask her as she sits down and everyone starts to serve themselves. She s napping right now but she should be due to wake up in a few minutes, Louise says. By the time you ll have finished eating you ll be able to see her. Then she turns to Jo. Let me tell you, the nanny you sent has been a godsend! She put both of us on a schedule. It gave me time to sleep and shower and go out and get some fresh air all alone You know I don t know how women who don t have help do this by themselves. Neither do I, quite frankly, Jo says. I nod but don t say anything; I have nothing to contribute to this discussion seeing as I don t have children of my own, much as I wish I did. How is Steve? I ask as I raise a spoonful of rice and salsa to my mouth.TURNED TABLES Oh, well, we decided to take it all a little slower now, Louise says. He s moved out for the moment but we re working on our issues with our counsellor. She turns to Jo once more. Again, thank you for recommending her, she has been an absolute blessing. Really helped me see why I was treating Steve so badly, and she s helped him understand what I was going through. I feel like such a huge burden has been lifted off my shoulders now that Steve and I are on the same page. My spoon, which had happily been making its way to my mouth, is now paused mid-air as my mouth hangs open and not because I am expecting an incoming load of rice, but because I am shocked. Steve, who had such a hard time committing to Fatma who bent over backwards to please him, is bending over backwards to please Louise who is having a hard time committing to him?? What is happening?! You mean Steve has been coming for your therapy classes regularly and even participating? I gasp.Louise nods. It was actually his idea, she says.I take my spoon to my mouth and chase it with a sip of cold, delicious passion juice because my mouth suddenly feels very dry. Fatma had been trying to get Steve into counselling sessions to boost their relationship, without much luck. Now this. I suppose he really loves Louise or perhaps he loves the unavailability of her. Where is he now? I ask. At work. But we re meeting later. Counsellor date night. She laughs. Jo giggles. I smile tightly. Oh, I am familiar with those ones, she says. My husband and I had to have those when baby first came because I became so immersed in her world I forgot anyone else existed. Louise nods as she spoons food around her plate, not eating it. You know, I think that s part of the problem. Her tone has suddenly become very serious. New mothers don t give themselves permission to enjoy their life away from their baby. You feel guilty for leaving the child, for going anywhere with your baby. It s almost like a prison. FLYING AWAY So true! Jo chimes in. Ahem, I say as I raise my glass of juice to take another sip. Did you cook all this, Louise? Because it s absolutely delicious. I didn t know you had these skills. There s a lot you don t know about me, haha! Louise laughs. Next time I ll make a really nice biryani, she winks.It s interesting because what she s said is absolutely true; beyond knowing her as a good Christian girl and as my PA for a short period of time, I don t really know that much about Louise away from work. So Liz has some news of her own, Jo says, turning to me. Oh? What is it? Louise asks. I m thinking of quitting my job, I say. Louise gasps, but Jo is nonplussed; we discussed this in the car on the way here. I tell Louise about all the drama that has taken place in the days since she left. And you know, I just don t think I feel comfortable there any more, I say. So what are you planning to do next? Louise asks. I spotted a marketing position at our sister company in Ghana, I tell her. I ll apply for it and God-willing, if I get it, I should be out of the country in a couple of months. email print email print