Mombasa Woman Rep Mishi Mboko has only been in parliamentary politics for only one term now, but her name has within the four years become a household name nationally. The MP has not only emerged as one of the fiercest defenders of her ODM party and its leader Raila Odinga, but has also been in the frontline as an advocate of women and youth both in the House and outside. Ms Mboko, is now a political brand name at the Coast in particular, because of her outspokenness, courage and advocacy in defence of her constituents, the party and its leaders. In Mombasa, it is clear that Ms Mboko, one of Governor Hassan Joho’s closest political allies, has made a mark both in Parliament and in the county, especially on issues that affect women, the youth and disabled people. LIKONI MP RACE Now, the Mombasa woman rep has opted to move to what she says is a more competitive race, the Likoni Constituency parliamentary seat. This is expected to be a tough fight between her and Jubilee Party’s Masoud Mwahima, a veteran politician and a force to reckon with, among others. However, Ms Mboko says she is ready to fight it out with Mr Mwahima, a former Mombasa mayor, as well as the other male competitors, saying she does not fear the battle because she expected it and thought through the decision before plunging into the contest. “Politics is all about competition and I have all it takes to fight it out for the seat and, ultimately, the people have the final say and they know who their true representatives are,’’ she adds. WON ODM TICKET And to confirm that she is indeed ready to take on her male competitors, Ms Mboko defeated her sole opponent for the ODM ticket in the primaries, in a hotly contested race by more than 2,000 votes. The businessman, Hamisi Domoko, garnered 3,294 votes against the Ms Mboko’s 5,935 votes. She explains that she was decided to run for the constituency seat because of the need to have the people feel fully represented. Further, she says as a constituency MP, she would be able to get money, through the National Government Constituency Development Fund (NG-CDF), and raise the standards of living of residents of Likoni. OPPORTUNITIES “Our women and youth need opportunities which I will bring to them through the funds allocated to us by the government. I am closely working with the county leadership and it is through this good relationship that I will manage to provide for my people,” said Ms Mboko in an interview with Nation. But Ms Mboko will also have to contend with three other candidates from her National Super Alliance (Nasa) coalition during the general election on August 8, to become the next Likoni MP. They include former MP Suleiman Shakombo (Wiper), Mr Bernard Waore (ANC) and Suleiman Mgala who is running on a Vibrant Democratic Party (VDP) ticket. TOUGH-TALKING The tough-talking Ms Mboko also says that after serving in that position for five years, she felt it was time to give room for another woman to run for it and serve the people. That way, she argues, more women would be able to join the male-dominated political scene and run for elective seats. She adds that this is one of the reasons she has passionately supported the Gender Bill, which MPs in the Eleventh Parliament have been unable to debate and pass, in order to have more women in Parliament and ensure equity in the society. “In this country, women have been marginalised for so long. That is why even in the current Parliament, we are seeing very few women. That is why we are pleading and requesting our male counterparts to give us support in passing this Bill. “We know culturally the burden of a breadwinner has been left to the [men] but passing this Bill and empowering more women will mean that even women who are going to be in this Parliament and in other decision- making positions are going to reduce the burden of being breadwinner for the men,” she said in the House while contributing to the proposed legislation. VIE FOR OTHER SEATS She also encourages women to vie for other positions such as MPs, senators or governors. Before her election in 2013, Ms Mboko was co-convener of the Civil Society Organisations in Mombasa, which worked with other civil society groups to avert total political collapse in the aftermath of the violence that tore apart after the December 2007 elections. She was also instrumental in the peace building initiatives in the coastal region and mobilised and organised a series of multi-media campaigns and media strategies that aimed at transferring knowledge on the need for peace and development. She has been active in the parliamentary Transport and Infrastructure committee, and also as an executive committee member of ODM. She says her vision for Likoni, if elected, is to provide for quality education for all and scholarships for the needy, quality healthcare for all, access to safe drinking water and sanitation, child and elderly support and protection, youth and women economic empowerment through access to credit and opportunities and emergency preparedness and response.  