There are mountains that life will throw at you, and there are those that you opt to challenge yourself with. I have chosen Mt Kilimanjaro. In the coming three very short weeks, I will attempt to climb to the summit of this mountain. Many are shocked at the news, as there have been casualties, even some deaths, over the years as people attempt this climb. As the days for the climb draw closer, I am getting nervous but I am not afraid of failing, because failure is proof that someone was at least trying to accomplish something. I have termed my motivation for doing this my why. Your why is what moves you, what drives you. It has to be bigger than you. Mariah Anderson once said: If you have a purpose in which you can believe, there s no end to the amount of things you can accomplish, and I add the pain you can endure. The months leading to the climb have been tough, having come up with what I call #mykilimanjarobootcamp, which is made up of daily meticulous eating and rigorous training regime; involving strength training, swimming, boxing, hiking, walking and stairs climbing. Why am I taking on the challenge of the Kilimanjaro climb, which involves gruesome training, eating regime and substantial investment? My climb is dedicated to all mothers out there who are raising kids with challenges. OUR OWN MOUNTAINI define a challenge in my upcoming book I am Mamah!: Raising Kids with Challenges. Real Women. Real Stories. Real Strategies that Work , as anything that keeps a Mamah awake at night, concerning their child. We are each climbing our own Kilimanjaro, every day with our children. As I climb, I am not looking to conquer the mountain but to conquer myself. This holds true for each mother out there, whose child is facing challenges, be it physical, emotional, social or psychological. As part of my training regime, I have to conquer every other weekend a 21km walk around Sandton, Johannesburg, South Africa, where I live. Even though, we are in the middle of winter, temperatures being as low as 6 degrees at 4.30am, it is the power of the why that gets me out of bed. All dressed up ninja style, with only my eyes and nose being exposed, carrying an 8kg weighted back pack on my back, head lamp and a prayer; I hit the road at 5.30am all possible safety issues not withstanding. At this time of the morning, I am walking alone with the cold biting in the silent neighbourhood. I cannot help but think of the mamahs who are walking alone with their children, while being surrounded by people who are going about their daily lives normally. Who speaks to mamah? Who encourages mamah? This walk takes me about five hours as there are some serious hills involved, and as time passes the bag seems to be getting heavier and my legs want to give in and feel foreign to my body. The Kilimanjaro climbing mantra is Pole Pole. Imagine you are with me on this long walk that does not seem to end, when someone comes flying past you running. You begin to think, I could do that also, but knowing very well that Kilimanjaro is one long treacherous hike. I keep walking, for each step is for mamah. With the sun now already up in the sky, it is the last hilly stretch when I near home that is a killer. It feels like the actual Mt Kilimanjaro as I feel like throwing the weights in the nearby bush and seating by the roadside with my head in my hands howling to the world around me: Why me? Why this? But in those difficult times, the mantra that keeps me going is Mamah! Out there, You are possible! I finally get home super tired, but tomorrow I will surely get up, show up for yet another day of preparing for the Kilimanjaro.The writer is a speaker, author and Africanised leadership strategist. [email&#160;protected] @petronillamm email print email print