The National Super Alliance (Nasa) leaders were on Monday united in calling for the investigation and arrest of those behind the killing of Mumias Sugar Company Secretary Ronald Lubya. The leaders also declared an “Unga Revolution” to remove the Jubilee administration from power. Nasa leaders Raila Odinga, Kalonzo Musyoka, Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetang’ula pointed an accusing finger at the Jubilee government, saying Mr Lubya was killed for refusing to give in to attempts to have the company used to hide sugar illegally imported from South Sudan. Mr Odinga, the coalition’s presidential candidate, also blamed the government for the May 5, 2016 killing of businessman Jacob Juma. The case has not been resolved to date. “The Jubilee government killed my friend Jacob Juma. Yesterday (Sunday), they killed Mumias Sugar Company Secretary Ronald Lubya. He opposed a scheme to import sugar from Sudan to Uganda. They wanted the sugar to be labelled that it had been manufactured by Mumias,” said Mr Odinga, while calling on Kenyans to vote out the Jubilee government. RAISED ALARM Mr Mudavadi, who had first raised the alarm on the scam, asked the government to stop intimidating public officers and forcing them to raise money for campaigns through illicit means. “This is definitely a murder disguised as fatal robbery. The young man declined pressure to endorse documents, which could show that the company had imported sugar. We want this investigated thoroughly because the lives of other parastatal heads are in danger,” he said. Three armed men shot dead Mr Lubya on Sunday night at his rural home in Kholera sub-location, Matungu Constituency, before escaping in his vehicle. The gangsters were armed with a pistol and were reportedly dressed in camouflage uniforms similar to those worn by police. SPEEDY INVESTIGATIONS Western region police coordinator Moses Ombati said the robbers abandoned the vehicle at Kabula market, four kilometres away on the Mumias-Bungoma road. He said police were pursuing all possible angles that could help unravel the motive behind the grisly killing of the sugar firm’s legal officer. Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula also castigated the government for the killing and called for speedy investigations. “Those responsible for the beastly murder of the Mumias Company Secretary ... , should be investigated,” said Mr Wetang’ula. Mr Musyoka sounded a warning to leaders from the region who had joined Jubilee, saying the Unga Revolution would sweep them aside. CALL A MEETING He said there was a team that had given him an ultimatum to call a meeting of the region to chart the direction of the Kamba community. He said none of the leaders, including Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua, would make it back in the next elections “I want to also tell our professionals to read the signs of time. Kenya is in a revolutionary mood, “said Mr Musyoka. He said there was no government in the world that involves itself in the business of selling flour. “Unga labelled GOK (Government of Kenya) should be given free of charge, “he said. Mr Musyoka said all leaders should be allowed to address rallies without interference from rivals as happened in Nandi County during a Nasa rally on Sunday. He condemned the incident and called on Jubilee Party leaders to restrain their supporters. THIRD IN COMMAND Mr Musyoka defended his move to back Mr Odinga for President, adding that he would not have accepted to become third in command in the Jubilee government. Siaya Senator James Orengo said Nasa will sue the government for contravening the law and selling flour labelled GOK. He said no item with that label should be sold in the shops. Governors Julius Malombe (Kitui), Hassan Joho (Mombasa), Evans Kidero (Nairobi ) and Kivutha Kibwana (Makueni) said the Nasa was capable of marshalling over 10 million votes in the August elections. BATTLE GROUND “Nairobi is not a battle ground. Sixty per cent of the voters are Nasa;” said Dr Kidero, and urged residents to turn up in large numbers and deliver victory to Nasa. Mr Joho asked Deputy President William Ruto to respect Mr Odinga. “There’s a big difference between Nasa and Jubilee. I want to tell Ruto that Raila is not his agemate. Same to President Uhuru Kenyatta,” he said. Prof Kibwana said Mr Odinga had promised to lead the country for five years and hand over to power to his Deputy Kalonzo Musyoka. He asked the residents of Ukambani region to vote for Mr Odinga for this to happen.   MPs claim Ronald Lubya was being coerced by some people to sign for illegal sugar.