The government has established an inter-ministerial task force to to coordinate the Government Food Subsidy Programme. The decision follows a public outcry that consumers are being forced to pay more for the subsidised maize flour, branded GoK, which is supposed to retail at Sh90 for a two-kilogramme packet. Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Willy Bett, in a Kenya Gazette notice, has mandated the task force to coordinate and provide strategic leadership in carrying out the programme launched by the government in mid-May. SUBSIDY The task force will be chaired by Agriculture Principal Secretary Richard Lesiyampe and its mandate is to ensure the subsidy programme is implemented in line with the government’s stated objective. The programme, launched last month by Mr Bett, aims to reverse the recent rise in the prices of essential food commodities. It is through the programme that the government has partnered with various millers to offer white maize flour at subsidised rates across the country. But there has been a public outcry that some areas are yet to enjoy the subsidised prices offered under the programme, raising doubts about its efficiency as there has been an acute shortage of the commodity in the shops. SUPPLY Consumers have, in some places, been forced to pay more for the subsidised flour, with some retailers selling it at a higher price than that recommended by the government. The minister has, however, asked the task force to analyse and provide an up-to-date status of the maize grain, and other essential commodities like sugar and powdered milk, to determine the supply and demand. The task force will also identify possible sources of the duty-exempted essential commodities and their competitive import prices. “It will monitor maize and maize products and other essential commodity prices in the market and advise the government accordingly,” the notice reads. MONITOR Members of the task force will serve for a period of four months, starting May 2, and will monitor and evaluate progress in implementing the programme. “It will perform any other necessary function necessary for the effective coordination and implementation of the programme realises its objectives,” the notice stated. A coordination secretariat has been set up at the ministry headquarters, as well as an inter-ministerial technical committee to ensure effective performance of its functions.  