Administration Police officers involved in security operations in Laikipia County have protested delays in the payment of their allowances totalling over Sh14 million. Their counterparts in the operation — regular police and General Service Unit officers — were each paid Sh63,500 two weeks ago but the APs were left out without any explanation. BUDGET And with the government’s fiscal year coming to an end Friday, there are fears that the money set aside for the allowances could be returned to the Treasury. “As security officers, we are doing the same job with the regular police, yet we have been left out in payments and no one has come out to offer an explanation,” an affected officer told the Nation in confidence because he fears victimisation. “This discrimination makes us feel demoralised at our camps.” A senior officer based in Laikipia confirmed to the Nation that the APs have been waiting their pay for the past two weeks in vain. He said there are 15 camps spread across various private ranches with each camp holding between 10 and 20 officers. 225 OFFICERS With an average of 15 AP officers per camp, it means the 225 officers are entitled to a total Sh14,287,500 if they were to receive Sh63,500 each like their regular police counterparts. The officers in the operation are sourced from across the country, according to the senior officer based in Laikipia County, who declined to be named because he is not authorised to speak on the matter. When asked to shed light on the delayed payments, Administration Police spokesman Masoud Mwinyi told the Nation that the allowances were being processed and would be paid soon. “The regular [police] and Administration Police financial departments operate differently. It does not mean that since the allowance for APs has been delayed, it won’t be paid out. HERDERS “Deputy Inspector-General Samuel Arachi is aware of the issue and it is being addressed," he said. Currently, Mr Mwinyi said, there is a big number of AP officers involved in security operations in Baringo, Lamu and in the northeast and they will all get their allowances. In Laikipia, the officers are camping on private ranches to keep off armed herders who have been driving their animals to the farms in search of pasture. On some ranches, the herders have caused death, injuries and destruction of property.   One herder shot dead during the fire exchange prompting more aggression.