Three changes have been made to the Kenya Simbas squad that takes on Uganda Cranes in the second leg of the Elgon Cup on Saturday at the RFUEA grounds, Nairobi.Homeboyz's enterprising backrow Steve Security Otieno and Mwamba centre Brad Owako are set to make their international debuts, with Kenya Commercial Bank's (KCB's) half-back Kenny Andola set to make a comeback.They replace Martin Owila ((KCB), Biko Adema (Nondies) and Kelvin Masai (Impala Saracens) in the team that play Cranes in a return leg that will double up as Rugby Africa Cup Division 1A now Gold Cup.Team manager Wangila Simiyu said the decision to rest Owila is tactical, while Adema and Masai are unavailable due to work commitments.However, Otieno, Owako and Andola will start on the bench in a duel, where backrow Joshua Chisanga (Newcastle Falcons) and fly-half Isaac Adimo (Harlequin) will now start, having come off the bench in Simbas slim 23-18 first leg victory against Cranes a fortnight ago in Kampala. Owako and Otieno have been knocking on the door of Simbas for some time and it s now time for them to showcase their potential, said Wangila when he named the team on Thursday at the RFUEA grounds.Team captain Darwin Mukidza promised a new style of approach against Cranes, promising a resounding victory. Everything is working now as compared to the first leg where we were anxious to score and ended up committing many errors, said Mukidza.Rugby Africa Gold Cup will comprise six best teams in Africa where they will meet from June 24 to August 5 on home or away matches. Other teams in the group are defending champions Namibia, Zimbabwe, Tunisia and Senegal. The teams will try to avoid relegation to the Silver Cup as this would mean the end of the 2019 World Cup dream. Next year, the Rugby Africa Gold Cup will act as the Rugby World Cup qualifying round. The winning team of the 2017 Silver Cup will be promoted in Gold Cup and vice versa. The team relegated in Silver Cup will have no chance to participate to the RWC in Japan.Kenya Simbas 15.Tony Opondo, 14. Darwin Mukidza (captain), 13. David Ambunya, 12. Patrice Agunda, 11. Jacob Ojee, 10. Isaac Adimo, 9. Samson Onsomu, 1. Moses Amusala, 2. Peter Karia, 3. Dennis Karani, 4. Simon Muniafu, 5. Oliver Mang eni, 6. Eric Kerre, 7. Davis Chenge, 8. Joshua Chisanga Replacements 16. Philip Ikambili, 17. James Kubasu, 18. Curtis Lilako , 19. George Nyambua, 20. Steve Otieno, 21. Kenny Andola, 22. Brad Owako, 23. Leo Seje email print email print