The beauty of writing a column like this is that when someone is offering a suggestion of a story idea (mostly women, men are too proud to admit they read this column..unless they are drunk) they start conversations with me like, A friend of mine It s never them. People want to hide behind others. I get it. Self preservation. Take this lady for instance. She recently told me about her friend who keeps having men come to her house and eat her food, have their way with her and leave. Every year, she meets these breed of men. They come to her house, they remove their shoes, put up their feet on the coffee table and ask if there is fresh juice , and they open the fridge and stick their noses in there and eat all the almonds. Why would a man do that with no shame? she asked. Maybe this friend of yours is a good hostess, I said sarcastically. Maybe she loves to entertain and feed. She is a nurturer. She loves visitors. Some people are like that, you know. She snorted. No, she is definitely not a nurturer, she just meets the wrong men. I was loving how we were talking about her in the third person. There are no wrong men, only women who make men misbehave, like your friend. I said.HER CONTENTIONHer contention is that these men who come to her house never show up with anything but ideas. They don t come bearing any wine, or cheese, or a small gift. They never bring anything; not fruits, not take-out, not a grain of peanuts. They blame traffic for not having time to get off the road and fetch something she might have asked. They swing their hands in and they demand world-class treatment and when they are done, when they have eaten all the almonds (she - rather, her friend - kept complaining about this) he leaves. Now they call him and his ilk The Almond Guy. The problem here is not even the Almond Guy, it s this, uhm, friend of hers. Carrying food or wine or a paper bag bearing goodies of any nature to a woman s house isn t always common sense, it s a matter of culture and good breeding. Some people are bred with wolves in forests. I am certain that this Almond Guy will be shocked to learn that she complains to her friends after he had been fed and given tea afterwards. He will be like, Aii, I thought she likes to have me over and cook for me? I didn t imagine I was imposing. It s like those people who come to visit the sick at the hospital wards without anything, not flowers, not fruit or even Lucozade. They imagine that their presence has healing powers. That it s the thought that counts.So, tell him. Sometimes we need to be told. But we are lucky that most women will not want to tell us and risk upsetting the apple (or almond) cart. We are lucky that the bar has dropped so low that you only show up with your ill manners and you will be given a certificate of participation. It is not the fault of them chaps that they get to get away with their bad manners; it s the woman s fault. Everybody is treated the way they let themselves be treated.Going to moan to your girlfriends over wine never helps matters, it seems. Because you will be handed loads of advice on how you should put a stop to our madness and you nod and reach for the carafe to fill your glass, and you promise to speak up but when the day comes and we show up, you mouse off and offer excuses. So tell us. Say, By the way, it wouldn t hurt to bring me a bottle of wine when you come. Of course it will embarrass us but we deserve it; besides, it s a small price to pay for your peace of mind. So say something when you are not happy, say it immediately, don t wait until you can t even speak up because you will sound whiny and keen to start another senseless fight. Otherwise, the chap will assume all is hunky-dory.Women build us but they also make us lazy. There are scores of us who don t mind eating from the hands of women. We don t mind being fed. And often women are enablers of this bad behaviour because of the need to appear accommodating or loving or whatever it is they imagine they are in the face of these ill manners.So, tell us. Otherwise he will just not stop at eating your almonds but he will move in and stay there rent-free. email print email print