How would you fare if you married someone with conflicting religious beliefs, or your spouse decided to embrace a different religion?Religious practice promotes the well-being of a family, says Patrick F. Fagan, a Research Fellow in family and cultural Issues. In some cases, one s religion can contribute to beliefs and practices that determine positive or negative behavioural patterns. In addition, some religious practices have the capacity to improve physical, mental and emotional health. Since religion and its practice contributes to the stability and quality of marriage, every effort must be put in place to avoid a partisan approach, which could destroy what needs to be enhanced by faith and practice. In cases where religion becomes a thorn of contention in the relationship, try these solutions:1. Set clear ground rules that allow dialogue that is pleasant and respectable.2. Do not allow threats, manipulation or abusive behaviour. This could cause irreparable damage to the relationship.3. Avoid desire to control. Tread carefully where you reach an impasse. Avoid disrespectful or judgmental language towards your spouse s convictions. Let love guide you, no matter what your misgivings are.4. Accept that your spouse is allowed to have a different opinion and also allowed to express himself even in matters of faith.5. Instead of outrightly rejecting their new way of worship, seek to find out the motivation behind it.6. Where differences have been identified and isolated, engage in an honest discussion that builds understanding. Good religious practice should aim at demonstrating belief and practice that will: Increase the level of marital happiness and stability. Work at providing a good home, ethics, and habits that contribute to the longevity of the marriage. Lead to greater accountability in the home. Improve each spouse s self-control, self-esteem, coping skills, and family cohesion. Reduce or even eliminate chances of separation, divorce, adultery and domestic violence. email print email print