President Uhuru Kenyatta took a neutral position on Wednesday and left it to Kirinyaga voters to choose who between Narc-Kenya leader Martha Karua and former Devolution Cabinet Secretary Anne Waiguru will be their next governor. Ms Waiguru is Jubilee’s flag-bearer for the gubernatorial race while Ms Karua will contest using her party’s ticket. During the tour of the county, the President lined up Ms Karua and Ms Waiguru  in Kianyaga Town and announced that he had no preferred candidate. CANDIDATE OF CHOICE He told residents to elect the candidate of their choice as both Ms Karua and Waiguru were his friends. “These two ladies are my friends and if you elect one of them as a governor, I will give the other a government job,” said the Head of State amid applause. Earlier, supporters of the two candidates clashed at Kianyaga in Kutus and Mwea. The President’s decision appeared to have been prompted by the resistance he and his deputy William Ruto have faced in various counties within Mt Kenya region after trying to advocate for six-piece voting and endorsing Jubilee Party candidates. DEMANDED FREEDOM Voters have rejected the call and demanded freedom to vote for leaders of their choice. The script was the same in Murang’a, Nyeri, Meru  and Tharaka Nithi as the two leaders were greeted by the brewing rebellion which started immediately after the nominations. A host of losers decamped from Jubilee to run as independent candidates, claiming they were edged out unfairly and that the primaries were shambolic. In Meru County, the President and his deputy met resistance in Tigania and Igembe after they tried to drum up support for Jubilee candidates including Senator Kiraitu Murungi, who is seeking to unseat Peter Munya of PNU. PREFERRED LEADERS Residents of Kianjai, Mutuati, Laare and Maua told the President to let them vote for their preferred leaders. “If that is the case then, you are free to vote for whoever you want as long as you cast your vote for me and my friend Ruto,” President Kenyatta said. Mr Murungi has since accused Governor Munya of hiring youths to humiliate him in the presence of the President. In Nyeri, both independent and Jubilee candidates engaged in a war of words over who was to accompany the President during the tour. INCUMBENTS Some leaders including Governor Samuel Wamathai and Mathira MP Peter Weru maintained that they were entitled to welcome him given that they are incumbents. During a stopover in Karatina Town,  residents resisted the President’s attempts to endorse Jubilee candidates. The voters demanded to be allowed to vote for leaders of choice. READ: Waiguru-Karua duel: Who’ll blink first? “I have heard you and I have gotten the message. Vote for me but just vote for the leaders you want. Give me people who I can work with,” said the President. In Tharaka Nithi, Governor Samuel Ragwa and independent candidate Icenga Mugao accused Mr Ruto of spoiling President Kenyatta’s re-election bid by causing divisions among his supporters. EXPRESSED DISAPPOINTMENT Governor Ragwa of Narc-Kenya and Mr Mugao, a running mate to independent candidate Petkay Miriti, expressed disappointment with the decision by Mr Ruto to endorse Jubilee candidates during the Tuesday tour in the county. In Murang’a, the Jubilee duo came face-to-face with differences between Kiharu MP Irungu Kangata and Senator Kembi Gitura, who have launched an onslaught against each other. Mr Kangata had initially demanded ejection of Mr Gitura from the campaign trail, saying it was a Jubilee affair. Reports by Joseph Wangui, David Muchui, Grace Gitau, George Munene and Alex Njeru  