“I was brought up in a strict Christian home in Kasarani, Nairobi. My mum was a church elder and my dad was a military man. I am the first-born; I have one brother and one sister. My siblings and I were not close with our parents because of the confinement – they didn’t allow us to go outside and mingle with other kids; we stayed in the house and read books or watched TV. It’s from TV that I fell in love with singing and dancing. I was an emotionally unstable child. I was also shy and had low self-esteem. I first attempted suicide in my bedroom when I was 10. I put a polythene bag over my head and tied it tight around my neck. I tightened the knot with both hands around my neck then I waited to die. But I didn’t die. My hands became numb instead and dropped to my sides, letting air into the bag. I attempted suicide the second time when I was 17. I was in a mixed day secondary school. I had no confidence in myself and wasn’t performing well in school. I was always at loggerheads with my parents because of one thing or another. This time, I pinched my nose, sprayed Doom insecticide into my mouth and inhaled it. Still, I didn’t die. After high school, I joined Kenya Polytechnic for a Diploma in Fashion Design. Our campus was in town and I would commute daily. This was the first time I was doing something by myself! I wanted the whole world to know who I was and one way I was sure they would was through my music. I had a book where I had written several  lyrics. I looked for a studio producer to record these songs. I went to five producers and four of them told me I didn’t have any talent and that I should remain a shower singer. The last producer asked me for sex. I refused. I finished my diploma then joined Nairobi Aviation College for another diploma in air cargo handling. It was while in college that I first went to a disco. That was the first time I danced in public. The crowd cheered me on and some tipped me to keep dancing. I loved the feeling. I had Sh3,000 by the time I left the jam session at 6pm and innocently left for home. LISCIOUS THE VIXEN I returned to the studios that had refused to record my songs and told them I had something better to offer: I could dance. I auditioned, they liked my moves and I was booked for a concert. Me and other girls on stage danced for six minutes and we were each paid Sh3,000. I was 22. My career as a video vixen had just begun. My stage name was ‘Liscious’. I had red dreadlocks and a silver bullring. I wore hot pants and tank tops in my videos. The more skimpily I dressed, the more skin I revealed, the more confident I felt. My parents didn’t know I had dropped out of school to dance for money. I’d do four to six videos in a month and get paid between Sh4,000 and Sh5,000 per video. Sometimes we wouldn’t get paid. Nonetheless, I wasn’t into any substance abuse – I wasn’t drinking alcohol, doing drugs or smoking cigarettes and bhang with the celebs and artists on set. I was also still a virgin. My parents eventually found out about my new career when someone showed my dad one of the videos. He confronted me in front of my mum. I was so scared and I ran away from home that night and went to live with a friend in Kibera. I didn’t stop to reconsider the dark lifestyle I had drawn myself into. Early December in 2013, I was invited for a house party in Lang’ata. Everyone except me was smoking bhang and taking alcohol. I was drinking soda. Some guys had made a bet that I wouldn’t be still a virgin by the end of the night. One of them was my friend. He spiked my drink and raped me. I blacked out through it but I remember waking up and feeling that something was not right - I was naked from the waist down. I put on my clothes and on my way, the rapist gave me Sh150 and told me, “Nunua P2.” I felt empty and crushed. Who was I to blame? I had taken myself there. I got medication from Nairobi Women’s Hospital then went back home to my mum. LIFE PURPOSE I attempted suicide the next day. I swallowed rat poison then cut my left wrist and used my blood to write a suicide note. I was almost dying. My mum found me unconscious in my bedroom and took me to hospital. Full of remorse for the one month I was lying in the hospital bed with machines beeping around me, I asked God for a second chance. When I returned home, I changed phone numbers and turned down offers to shoot videos. I wanted to live a better life and value myself. But you have to be at the right place to expect the right results: In January 2014, I joined a new church and became a gospel singer. I released  singles such as 'Tumwambararie' and 'Futa machozi'. The church pastors organised for me and the worship team to visit different high schools every Sunday and speak to students. In one of the girls’ school in Meru, I shared my life story. It was by grace I had stumbled into my calling as a motivational speaker. I was 25. I studied short courses in psychology and counselling before I was certified. I registered Faiward Eagle Mentors in January 2015. ‘Faiward’ is a combination of ‘fail’ and ‘forward’. Failing forward is the ability to bounce back and move forward. I learned it from motivational writer John Maxwell. I failed forward – my old life taught me that I am not a prisoner of my past but a pioneer of my future.”  