The National Super Alliance on Tuesday promised to turn around Kenya’s fortunes as it launched its manifesto at an event at Ngong Racecourse in Nairobi. Orange Democratic Movement presidential candidate Raila Odinga said the team wants to work together with the rest of Kenyans to transform the country. “We want to reconcile our country. We formed the Truth, Justice and Reconciliation Commission to heal our country. But that report was not implemented,” said Mr Odinga. The coalition would also tackle corruption, whose prevalence he blamed on failure to implement existing laws. “We will as Nasa leaders sign a code of conduct and we’ll not do business with government,” he said. Mr Odinga said a Nasa government would upgrade the infrastructure. He described as utopian, the promise by the Jubilee government to construct 10,000 kilometres of tarmac in five years. Mr Odinga said his government would come up with ways to have the youth engaged in business. He said his government would create a fund to be managed by the Woman Representatives to enable marginalised groups get more access to capital. YOUTH FUND Mr Odinga said that the Youth Enterprise Development Fund has not helped the target people because of bureaucracy. The opposition leader reiterated that under Nasa government, there will be no tribalism and all Kenyans will have equal access to economic opportunity. Mr Musalia Mudavadi, who is designated to be a senior cabinet secretary, the equivalent to a Prime Minister, said Nasa would seek a cure to rampant unemployment, low incomes and expensive education. SH60 BILLION The one-time finance minister said when all corruption loopholes are sealed, an additional Sh60 billion would be saved to fully fund free education from kindergarten to Form Four. “Promise what you can deliver and deliver what you have promised,” he said. Bomet Governor Isaac Ruto said the current problems in the health sector, much of which is devolved, arises from the failure to properly coordinate between the national and county governments. “We will ensure free healthcare for all. Nasa’s plan is to create a Universal Service Fund for Health,” he said. This will be a subsidised healthcare system affordable to all. The Bomet governor said agriculture must be fully funded for the country to be food secure.   1. NATION BUILDING