President Uhuru Kenyatta has said the destiny of the country lies in the composition of all 45 million Kenyans who must strive to achieve it through working together in unity, using their diversity as their strength. He said Kenya’s destiny cannot be achieved by one individual, but rather by all the citizens supporting and working towards a common goal irrespective of their religious, ethnic or political party backgrounds. “Kenya will not be made great by one community but by appreciating each other, our diversity is not a challenge,” the President told worshippers at Kingdom Seekers Fellowship Church in Nakuru town after attending a church service. Deputy President William Ruto, Nakuru Governor Kinuthia Mbugua, Nakuru Jubilee gubernatorial aspirant Lee Kinyanjui and Senate aspirant Susan Kihika were also in attendance. Assuring citizens of peace and tranquillity, President Kenyatta reiterated that at no time will he allow Kenyans to shed blood because of politics. He urged the church to continue praying for peace and unity of all Kenyans during this electioneering period saying election is a one day event and the country must continue to exist even after the polls. “I want to assure you there will be peace before, during and after elections. We have to acknowledge that Kenya will be there after election, and long after all of us are gone,” said President Kenyatta. Deputy President Ruto thanked the church for organising peace prayer caravan which has been moving throughout the 47 counties, saying the country would not have achieved much progress without God being in the lead. “We want to thank God for enabling us achieve a lot in the shortest period under the leadership of President Kenyatta,” he said. In his sermon, the leader of the Kingdom Seekers Church Apostle John Kimani Williams challenged all Kenyans to pursue their destiny as the country’s success is intertwined in the achievement of all Kenyans. The President is in Nakuru County as part of his campaign for re-election.  