Michael is a TV presenter, currently hosting LOTTO Live on KTN. He is also a budding entrepreneur 1.  How did you get into the presenting business? It all started when I sent in an application video for The Next Big Host in 2013. The show was looking for a TV presenter for an upcoming programme. Those interested were required to send in a video describing themselves, what they do and why they were interested in presenting. I made it to the top three, and though I didn’t win the challenge, a few months later, I got a call from KTN, who gave me the chance to host E-curve, a lifestyle and entertainment show. E-curve lasted three years, and led to my current job, hosting LOTTO Live. Before all this I was doing something totally different – marketing at a local NGO.  2.   How important is dressing and style to your daily work? Do you have a stylist? Dressing is very important in my work because it gives me the ability to express myself and stand out even before uttering a word. I am styled by Luci Robi. She specifically sources the outfits I wear for the show and dresses me when attending particular events or when I need a special touch.  3.  Tell us a little bit about Revoli. The Revoli Lounge & Grill is a three-level bar and restaurant on Ngong Road, on your way to Karen. It’s on the 8th floor of a new building that doesn’t have a name yet. Four of us own the business, which we launched early 2016, although the idea came up in 2015. We offer sumptuous meals and cold drinks coupled with great service and music.  4.  What are you going to be dipping your fingers into next? I am now working on content creation, blogging and the like. I also intend to start a vlog. I am hesitant to talk about it right now - you’ll see it when it comes out.  5.  What’s the one thing you would say to a young man like you trying to get into the business of television? I would tell him to network widely, lock on what exactly he wants to do and work on his skills. My case is a bit different because I went through a total shift in terms of careers. Also, I got into media first, and then realised that networking is important. That’s what was different for me - I was already in it, but learnt that to survive and grow, I needed to dig my roots deeper. Creating relationships means getting jobs. People won’t know you and what you’re capable of if you don’t make contact. Go out. Go to different spots. If you hear about a function, and you know that someone in the industry you’re interested in will be there, go. Strike a conversation, introduce yourself. It’s actually very easy. Most of us are held back by fear and shyness.  