Despite scratching the par four-18th hole for 16 points at the back nine, handicap 22 golfer Lawrence Ng ang a still emerged overall winner of the Accountants golf tournament held at the par 72 Ruiru Sports Club course at the weekend.He started the front nine with two bogeys at the first and second but the nine eventually turned out to be his main contributor for his impressive victory at the end of the day. On his recovery, Ng ang a birdied the par three-third hole, and later at the eighth, having bogeyed the fifth and sixth, coupled with a double at the par five-ninth for 24 points. The back nine was however a nightmare as despite picking up a par for a start, Ng ang a double bogeyed two holes, picked up a triple with the eighth at the home green for 16 points and the day s 40 which was good enough to beat the rest of the field. A three-way countback however separated men s winner A.K. Ndungu and the second and third-placed Samuel Mokaya and Chris Kiai of all of who had carded 38 points each. Also joining them with that score was lady winner Susan Mukururi who beat Valentine Mukui and third placed Winnie Kamau by two points. Leading the guests was Charles Kihara on 34 points and John Gitau was the best accountant with a score of 38 points while Francis Maina was the best sponsor on 31.The nines went to Wilfred Muiruri on 20 points and Douglas Njiraini on 22 points. At Machakos, former captain Dee Kivuva posted 39 points to win the Gelian Hotel Tombstone and Bunkers Reloaded launch golf tournament, where Nicodemus Masaka (37) beat four others, including Daniel Salaton, Jackson Nzioki and D.Kimanthi on countback. In the ladies section, Susan Ndolo (38) won by two points from Veronica Kona. The staff prize went to Julius Kioko on 33 points in addition to the men s longest drive as Ben Ogutu on 37 was the best guest.At Karen, immediate past captain Anthony Mogere beat former professional Alex McGuinness 1-up in the 36-hole final, to clinch the Club Matchplay sponsored by Resolution Insurance at the weekend. He started his campaign by beating Gakuo Macharia and John Muiruri 2-up and 2-1. He later beat Clive Davis 1-up, while McGuinness beat Ali Mohamed 3-2, Benoit Raymakers 6-5 and Richard Stone-Wigg at the 19th hole. In the ladies Matchplay, current lady captain Louisa Gitau beat Rose Mambo 2-up having earlier beaten Rachel Koigi 8-7, Koki Muia 4-2 and Kane Karuku 3-1. Mambo had beaten Sophie Njenga 4-3, Jacintah Wambugu 4-3 and Wanjira Kireri 2-1. Winning the subsidiary was Gakuo Macharia with 40 points, followed by Joe Musomba on 37 points. email print email print