The Jubilee Party moved to consolidate its support in Nyanza region ahead of the August 8 elections. National Secretary General Raphael Tuju led a strategy meeting attended by all candidates and officials in the region, aimed at denying the National Supper Alliance (Nasa) monopoly of votes. PROGRESS RECORDAddressing the forum at Royal Swiss Hotel, Mr Tuju assured them of support to ensure they marshal votes. "It can be done. We have the conviction that we can get votes in any part of the country including Nyanza and we are up to the task," Mr Tuju said. The secretary general said the party would use President Uhuru Kenyatta government’s development record in the region to appeal to the electorate. RE-ELECTIONThe former Rarieda MP said they will roll out massive campaigns, promising that the Jubilee leadership will visit the region. The regional head of the presidential campaign team and Karachuonyo MP James Rege said the meeting also deliberated on the strategies they will use to reach out to the residents. "We met here to exchange information and strategies to ensure the re-election of our party leader President Uhuru Kenyatta for another five years," Mr Rege told Journalists after the meeting. ISSUE-BASED POLITICSThe MP said they would employ door-to-door campaign strategy to reach out to many voters. "We are targeting between 40 and 50 per cent in Nyanza region and it is possible," he said. Nominated Senator Joy Gwendo also said they will maximise on the track record of the ruling administration to secure votes. "We thank our Secretary General Raphael Tuju for assuring us of support. We want to employ issue-based campaigns and we are telling our opponents to watch this space," Ms Gwendo, who is eying the Kisumu East parliamentary seat, said. FRUITFUL Regional coordinator Steve Mwanga (Central Nyanza) described the meeting as successful, saying "the strategies discussed would enable us boost our votes in Nyanza". Some of the party's candidates are Mr Tom Alila (Homa Bay governorship), Mr Dan Ongong’a (Siaya governorship) and Mr Ochoro Ayoki, for the Kisumu senate seat.   They have done nothing for you, Nasa tells Trans Nzoia residents as it trashes UhuRuto's tour of region.