National Super Alliance (Nasa) co-principal Isaac Ruto has asked the government to leave the Opposition’s flagbearer Raila Odinga alone. He termed calls by Jubilee politicians that Mr Odinga should be investigated over remarks he made recently on his tour of Kajiado County as misplaced. The Bomet Governor said that there was nothing wrong in urging the Maasai community to stop selling their ancestral land. "The Maasai community are victims of historical land injustices which the government has failed to address. That is the reason it has pained them to hear the people of Kajiado urged not to sell their indigenous land,” said Mr Ruto. The Chama Cha Mashinani (CCM) leader said that the Maasai should be compensated for the land they lost as stipulated in the Truth, Justice and Reconciliation Commission (TJRC) report. SYMPATHY VOTES He was accompanied by Narok Governor candidate Patrick Ntutu and Kilgoris constituency candidates Richard Kelele (CCM) and Peter Morintat (ODM). Speaking in Shartuka, Narok County at the home of Mr Kelele, Mr Ruto asked the Jubilee leaders not to revive the sad memories of the post-election violence in their campaigns. He accused the duo of trying to bring back the ICC debate so as to get sympathy votes from Kenyans. While cautioning them not to lead Kenyans down the path of violence by reopening old wounds, Mr Ruto also warned President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto that stoking animosity between different communities might land them on the same fate. "ICC is a past thing, but if someone insist that they must incite ethnic tensions in order to get back to power, they can well find themselves there again,” he said in reference to the President and his deputy. PROJECTS He also asked Kenyans to respect others' property and coexist peacefully. Mr Ntutu accused Governor Samuel Tunai of failing to initiate development not only in the larger Narok, but also in his own constituency. He said that the incumbent deserves to be shown the door in August as he has forgotten the people who had elected him to power. "Where is the development he had promised to bring to the grassroots in the last election? I can't lay a finger on a substantial project he has brought because the roads remain pathetic, water is still scarce and the lives if residents is pretty much the same,” said Mr Ntutu. He promised to supersede Mr Tunai's legacy by channeling resources to projects that will impact the lives of many people. CLASHES Mr Ntutu said he will build meat processing industries in the county to fully exploit its huge beef processing potential. "Narok is endowed with abundant resources. We have tourism and a huge potential in wheat, maize and barley as well as livestock production and yet money is being allocated to white elephant projects,” said Mr Ntutu. The Chama Cha Mashinani deputy leader said he will ensure equitable distribution of funds to youth and women groups. He also promised to introduce a ward development fund to spur development at the ward level if elected and pacify clashes in areas such as Esoit Naibor and Pimbinyiet.   Mr Ruto has accused the Opposition of creating "unnecessary noise."