Devolution Cabinet Secretary Mwangi Kiunjuri has said that National Supper Alliance (Nasa) is not ready for August 8 polls and is therefore engaging in sideshows to derail the election. Speaking at Bughuta in Kasigau Voi, Taita Taveta County, Mr Kiunjuri cited the claims by Nasa linking President Uhuru Kenyatta and his family to the tender awarded to Al Ghurair Company as sideshows meant to derail the August polls. He scoffed at Nasa’s opposition to every step that the Independent and Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) makes, saying they have no agenda for the country. “The opposition has no agenda for this country and that is why they are busy attacking everybody. They had enough time to plan so they should leave IEBC out of this,” he said. LITTLE TIME He said the electoral body has little time to prepare for the general election and warned the opposition to tone down the rhetoric for IEBC to deliver effectively. “We only have 53 days left to elections. With this little time remaining where does the opposition want the printing of ballot papers done? This means they are not prepared for the polls,” he said. Mr Kiunjuri said despite the opposition from Nasa, the country will still go into elections whether they boycott or not. He appealed to residents to vote for President Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto saying they have delivered their pledges to Kenyans. The minister said the Jubilee administration will continue to realise meaningful socioeconomic development across the country once elected again after the polls. ICC CASES He said in the first two years, the President and his deputy were tied by the International Criminal Court (ICC) cases and they could therefore not execute many projects. “Despite the little time they had, they have executed many projects across the country. We should give them another chance to do more development,” he said.   IGNORE INCITERS Mr Kiunjuri urged residents to ignore politicians who are out to divide and spread hatred among them for their selfish interests. Natural Resources PS Margret Mwakima said Jubilee is the only party that has demonstrated commitment to resolving the people’s challenges especially at the Coast. “We know this area experiences frequent wildlife invasions but the government has put up measures to put up an electric fence to stop these invasions,” she said. She said the government has set aside Sh285 million for compensation of victims of human-wildlife conflicts. Ms Mwakima said the government has already compensated relatives of victims who died due to injuries from wildlife. “The claimant list of deaths from 2013-2016 has already been compensated fully. “The next phase is for those injured and those whose properties and crops were destroyed by wildlife,” she said. Taita Taveta is one of the human-wildlife conflict hotspots in the country. The area borders the expansive Tsavo National Park.  