A Briton who was four years ago accused of killing his girlfriend has been freed by the High Court for lack of evidence. While pointing an accusing finger at the prosecution, Justice Hedwig Ong’udi ruled that Carl Gary Singleton, 43, was not guilty of the murder of Peris Ashley Agumbi. “The evidence adduced herein and relied on by the prosecution is incredible and therefore wanting, if this court were to place the accused on his defence and he lawfully chooses to remain silent, would it go ahead to convict him on the basis of the evidence before it? My answer is No,” said Justice Ong’undi. Mr Singleton was accused of flushing down the toilet the life-saving drugs of Ms Agumbi's, who was suffering from diabetes and hypertension. The judge faulted prosecutors for merely suspecting the accused to have committed the offence instead of presenting evidence that was tallying with the allegations raised against him. KEY WITNESS The judge also ruled that prosecutors did not present a key witness, who, the court was told, would have shed light on the whereabouts of Ms Agumbi's last moments before she died. The court also heard that the information presented about how the medicines had been flushed down the toilet as alleged was inconsistent and did not add up. “In conclusion, I find that the accused is not guilty of murder of the deceased and I acquit him. He shall be set free unless otherwise lawfully held,” she ruled. On November 22, 2014, Mr Singleton was charged with killing the woman he had allegedly fallen in love with after the met through social media platform Facebook. She was a fourth-year student at the University of Nairobi. On the fateful day, the night of November 19 the same year, the two, who lived together in an apartment in Gachie, had a disagreement and Mr Singleton threw out Ms Agumbi. ANGER PROBLEM She left the house without her medicines and reported at the Kihara Police Post that the accused had destroyed her medicines and spectacles. A neighbour testified that the accused had an anger problem and that he attacked her by holding her neck while chocking her that night. Ms Agumbi had tried to get back to the house to collect her medicines. The P3 report did not indicate she had any injuries on her body. Her medical condition got worse on November 21, 2014 and she visited three hospitals, but she died the following day due to acute complications related to uncontrolled diabetes. Nine witnesses testified in the case, including her mother, who disclosed that her daughter had contacted her using the phone of a woman called Camilta Nabwire the day before she died, requesting some money because she was unwell. The mother testified that she had sent Ms Nabwire Sh1,000 and advised her daughter to go to Aga Khan Hospital. She was transferred to another hospital because her aunt, who was to check on her, could not afford get her admitted to the High Dependency Unit.   A British national accused of killing his girlfriend whom he met on Facebook has been freed by court.