President Uhuru Kenyatta on Friday urged the Kamba community not to support Nasa just because the Opposition coalition’s top political leaders come from the region. In reference to Wiper party leader Kalonzo Musyoka, who is Mr Raila Odinga’s running mate, President Kenyatta said the politics of rallying behind the "son of your community" is outdated. GOOD LEADERS Mr Kenyatta, who addressed a series of six campaign rallies in the area, urged Kenyans to evaluate leaders aspiring for political office on the basis of their policies and development record, not the communities they come from. “This attitude of voting for the son of your community is old-fashioned because if he doesn’t have better policies you’ll still continue to suffer under his leadership,” he told a rally at Musila Gardens in Mwingi town. Mr Kenyatta, who was accompanied by his deputy, Mr William Ruto, asked voters in the region to support his re-election to allow his administration to accomplish its development agenda and the ongoing Jubilee projects. NASA LEADERS FAILED He told area residents to ignore leaders who engage in empty rhetoric and support leaders keen on ensuring Kenyans get access to essential services like water, roads, electricity and education. He also said opposition leaders had served in previous administrations for many years in senior positions yet they had nothing to show in terms of development. Mr Kenyatta, who spoke on the first leg of his three-day campaign tour of Kitui, Machakos and Makueni counties, said he is confident that Jubilee will win by a larger margin compared to the 2013 elections. “We won in 2013 despite the fact that we were faced with ICC cases. Do you think they will defeat us now?” he asked. WATER PROJECTEarlier, he launched the Sh1.4 billion Kiambere-Mwingi water project at Kyuso in Mwingi North Constituency formerly represented in Parliament by Mr Musyoka. The project that is being funded by the Italian government will provide water to more than 150,000 residents in Kyuso and Tseikuru among other parts of the larger Mwingi sub-county. It will also ensure water tanks are supplied to schools in the area. The President also launched the tarmacking of two key roads in Mwingi: the Kamuongo-Kyuso-Tseikuru road and Nguni–Nuu road. Mr Ruto claimed that Nasa is now assembling the corruption cartels that were dismantled by Jubilee. ELECTRICITY Mr Kenyatta and Mr Ruto were accompanied by Health Cabinet Secretary Cleopa Mailu, Nairobi Senator Mike Sonko and MPs Joe Mutambu (Mwingi Central), John Munuve (Mwingi North), Rachael Nyamai (Kitui South), among others. “We are grateful that Jubilee has started tarmac work on our roads, connected us to electricity as well as initiation of several water projects,” Mr Mutambu said.  