At the 2013 Barclays Kenya Open, I volunteered as a marshal.I was assigned some of the final groups and unbeknown to me, I was watching a man who would be the winner of one of this year s golf majors.Brooks Koepka, the winner of this year s US Open, was joint fifth at the 2013 Barclays Kenya open that was held at Karen Country Club. I remember thinking at the time that he was one of the very few Americans playing on the European Challenge Tour. There was nothing particularly awe-inspiring about his game that year, but he was very consistent all the same. All his four rounds were better than par.Last week, at the 117th US Open, I had the pleasure of watching some of the players who have played shots just a few metres from where I stood right here on Kenyan soil. There is, however, one local legend who I would have really loved to watch playing; the late John Mucheru. He currently holds the Kenyan record for having won the Kenya Amateur Matchplay Championship six times.He won the tournament in 1970, 1971, 1972, 1977, 1981 and finally in 1989. That, in my opinion, is a feat that will never be repeated. He will remain a true legend for as long as the tournament will be played in Kenya.As you read this on Friday, the 84th edition of the Kenya Amateur Championship will already be down to the final eight players at the Vet Labs Sports Club.This would be the 95th championship if we considered the previous 11 times that it was played as the Amateur Championship of Eastern Africa organised by the Nairobi Golf Club.The winner on Saturday will be the first player to earn a slot at the 2018 Barclays Kenya Open. The winner will also be immortalised just like other golfing greats like John Mucheru, David Farrar and David Wandua on one of the oldest golf trophy in Kenya.The main difference between how they determine the champion at The US Open and The Kenya Amateur Championship is the format of play.The US Open employs the strokeplay format while the Kenya Amateur Championship uses matchplay. The only thing in common is that there is always one winner. In strokeplay, a player/s competes against everyone else on the golf course. Matchplay on the other hand pits one or two players against one or two others. There are a number of differences in the Rules that govern matchplay that are so fundamentally different from those of strokeplay. It is impossible to combine the two formats and it is actually a blunder to attempt to play the two formats simultaneously. Here are just a few:Ball strikes another on the green. If one makes a stroke on the green, there is no penalty in matchplay if ones ball is deflected or stopped by a stationary ball. This, however, attracts a two stroke penalty in strokeplay. In matchplay, a player can putt with another ball still on the green and even if this helps to deflect their ball into the hole, there would be no penalty.Ball strikes opponent. If a ball in motion is stopped or deflected by an opponent, his caddie or his equipment, the player may choose to cancel the stroke and play another ball as closely as possible from where he/she had played the previous shot. There is no penalty incurred by either party in this case but it can give a player who has shanked a shot a second chance.In strokeplay on the other hand, hitting a fellow player is treated the same as hitting an outside agency. The player must play the ball as it lies. Opponent touches the ball. If an eager opponent decides to move the player s ball in play without express permission, the opponent incurs a penalty of one stroke. If a player s ball is interfering with the line of play of the opponent, the opponent must request the player to move it. If he opts to move the ball without the player s express permission, then the player may penalise him.It is important that golfers understand that it is not practical to combine matchplay and strokeplay competitions.There will be no confusion though at the Kenya Amateur Championship. The format of play will be matchplay and it is expected that all the players will know the subtle differences and make use of them to their advantage.Matchplay is a more interesting format to watch and it seems to bring the best out of some players. The most tenacious and focused player will emerge the winner this weekend. One thing for sure, it will not be easy. email print email print