Jimmy had a concerned look as he surveyed the state of his house. Campaign posters were plastered all over the walls, from the kitchen to the bedroom, there was not a spot without a poster of aspirants from a certain party, from the presidential to the MCA. His frustration was further compounded when Ann, his wife came into the room, before he could greet her, her phone rang with and the ringtone was the campaign’s rallying call. Jimmy wondered what had befallen him. Gone was the attentive wife who was at home wearing nice, normal clothes and a lesso while in the house and beautifully designed kitenge when they went out to church or meet family and friends. He was so proud of her. Now in her place, stood a walking campaign poster. She had so many t-shirts that she wore when going out - and she was out a lot, usually wearing a cap.  She too had changed her sleeping attire to the t-shirts. In the bedroom, Jimmy asked Ann to change from the T-shirt of her favourite politician to her usual sleepwear, she hesitated. She could not understand why her husband was furious. He had been complaining about her fanaticism. He was put off by the campaign images in the bedroom. In his words “It was like having another man watching him in his bedroom.” She though he was being dramatic. Although Ann’s passion was overkill, he had his own secret reason for the declaration. He did not like that candidate and his coalition and preferred their opponent. He wondered what his wife liked in an aspirant who he felt had nothing to deliver. Ann held the same view about Jimmy’s preferred candidate and there was an uneasy calm in their home. Jimmy and Ann are not alone. During campaign periods, there are many couples who support different parties and candidates. One or both spouses too may be involved in canvassing and lending their time and efforts to see their preferred candidate is elected to the chagrin of their partners, sometimes, this may be the end of a marriage. In February this year, American Gayle McCormick divorced her husband of 22 years because he had voted for President Trump. The big question remains: Is it worth it? Should such differences ruin the home? In a country that is democratic, a spouse can support whichever aspirant they please and there may be more peace if they support the same aspirant but this may not always be the case. Whatever the political inclination, a couple needs to ensure that their home and marriage is stable. Here are few ways to keep the peace: Freedom to choose – It is important for each spouse to have the freedom to choose whatever candidate they want and allow the other the same freedom. They may not exactly understand why their spouse prefers one candidate, regardless, respect their choice. You can try win over your spouse to your side but if they remain unconvinced, just respect that. Temporary season – Campaign period is a temporary season. It is not wise to make decisions that will permanently affect your relationship because of politics that come and go. There will always new coalitions and aspirants to support. Does that mean you disrupt your home or divorce your spouse every election time? The season is a passing cloud; do not be too serious about it. Set boundaries - Every person should control their passions and inclinations. Keep the campaign paraphernalia from your house and especially out of the bedroom. Have an open and honest discussion and agree what conversations or what level of involvement you will have in the campaigns while maintaining normalcy in the home.  If it becomes too much of a heated discussion, a couple may elect not to discuss the issue. There is no need to fight. Watch your words - Control what your say about your spouse’s choice for it might to lead to a fight. Can you imagine a couple fighting over an aspirant who will not pay their son’s school fees if elected? Each spouse must think about the other’s feelings. Don’t’ say things to hurt or demean. Sanctity of marriage – Marriage is more important than a candidate’s win. To place an aspirant above your marriage’s health is to totally miss the mark. Of all places, do not hang election posters in a bedroom and keep those T-shirts away too. Who wants to have intimacy with a spouse under the watch of politicians’ faces on the wall? Who wants to walk into their bedroom and be greeted by a campaign slogan? Marriage should be given the sanctity it deserves. You can be passionate about an aspirant but that should not be given room to interfere with your home. Your spouse first - Finally, do not let an aspirant’s cause rule over over your mind and heart. Give your spouse room to occupy their rightful place. Do your spouse a favour by putting a romantic ringtone as opposed to a campaign song. You can show more excitement when you meet him or her than when you shake the hand of your preferred candidate.   When all is said and done, an aspirant should not forget what is core—the family.