Six hotels earmarked to accommodate guests during the World Under-18 Athletics Championships are ready to welcome participants for the global track and field event.World-Under 18 and Local Organising Committee CEO Mwangi Muthee has said his team has signed contracts with Windsor Hotel, Safari Park Hotel, Kenyatta University, Kenya School of Monetary Studies, Sportsview Kasarani Hotel and Stadion Hotel.Kenyatta University where the athletes village is based and which has been upgraded to a three-star hotel, will host close to 3,000 athletes and officials while the better part of Windsor will accommodate the International Association of Athletics Federation (IAAF) family.IAAF s partners and technical support team will be accommodated at Safari Park Hotel that has set aside 150 rooms for the competition, while Kenya School of Monetary Studies that will house the media has provided more than 110 rooms. More international and national technical officials will put up at Sports View Hotel that has availed 200 rooms and Stadion Hotel. It s important to follow the IAAF procedure as far as accommodation and treatment of visiting teams and officials are concerned, said Muthee while sealing the deal with Sportsview Hotel management at Kasarani. The hotels are in exquisite condition and the IAAF is happy about it. Muthee urged the hotels to provide the best services they can. Our hospitality will start at these hotels before elsewhere and it is important that they provide the best to the visitors, said Muthee, adding that Kenya School of Monetary Studies will have rooms for the media at subsidised rates.Deputy director of accommodation, Peter Angwenyi, said that having the technical directorate closer to the competition s arena was a strategic move by organisers. It was foreseen that anything can happen during the championship and the technical officials who are the first people at the competition can easily walk to the arena, said Angwenyi. General manager of Sportsview Hotel, Peter Salaton, who was at hand to sign the deal with Muthee and Angwenyi, said that they are happy to be associated with World Under-18. We are determined to put our facilities in the best way possible to welcome the visitors, said Salaton adding that they shall provide free internet, swimming, gym and sauna services for those taking part at the World Under-18 competition. We are not taking this gesture for granted hence we must put out the best message about the country to the world. email print email print Muthee said they have approached the IAAF to have Kenya wolrd beaters at the event.