Newcastle Falcons backrow Joshua Chisanga has been included in Kenya Simbas squad that will face Uganda Cranes in the first leg of the Elgon Cup on Saturday in Kampala.Chisanga, who features for the English Rugby Premier League side, makes a comeback for the first time since 2015.Chisanga is among three forwards who have been drafted to the team to replace among others skipper Wilson K'Opondo, who dislocated his rib during the Simbas loss to Germany in Test Match a fortnight ago. Others are Curtis Lilako (Kenya Commercial Bank, KCB) and debutante James Kubasu (Impala).Winger Darwin Mukidza will get to captain Kenya Simbas for the first time."It s a privilege to lead this elite squad and I thank the players and the team management for the great honour and trust," said Mukidza, who expects a highly physical duel against Cranes."All we need to do is keep possession and use our kicking effectively to tire their heavy pack," said Mukidza. "We want to close the tie with a huge victory in the first leg just like last year."The return leg that will be on June 24 in Nairobi will also double up for the two team's first leg of the Africa Rugby Group 1A Gold Cup.Kenya Simbas crushed Cranes 48-10 in the first leg in Kampala before thrashing the Ugandans 45-24 in Nairobi to recapture the Elgon Cup on 93-34 aggregate.Team manager Wangila Simiyu said on Wednesday they needed to up their pack which was Simbas weak point during their duel against Germany where they lost 30-29."We were outmuscled in the pack against Germany and that is why we have brought in Chisanga, Lilako and Okubasu to make it heavier," said Wangila, adding that they intend to make their 22metres area clear always and execute well while in Uganda's 22m zone.Wangila said that the Germany match exposed their weak points which gave them an opportunity to re-evaluate their strategy."We have covered all the aspects and worked on our set-pieces and we should see a big difference on Saturday," said Wangila.Kenya Simbas leave on Thursday morning for the Kampala battle.SQUAD1.Moses Amusala (KCB), 2. Peter Karia (KCB), 3. Dennis Karani (Impala Saracens), 4. Simon Muniafu (Impala Saracens), 5. Oliver Mang eni (KCB), 6. Eric Kerre (Impala Saracens), 7. Davis Chenge (KCB), 8. Martin Owila (KCB), 9. Sam Onsomu (Impala Saracens), 10. Biko Adema (Nondescripts), 11. Jacob Ojee (KCB), 12. Patrice Agunda (SportPesa Quins), 13. David Ambunya ( Quins), 14. Darwin Mukidza (KCB), 15. Tony Onyango (Homeboyz)Substitutes: 16. Philip Ikambili (Homeboyz), 17. James Kubasu (Impala Saracens), 18. Curtis Lilako (KCB), 19. George Nyambua (Kabras Sugar), 20. Joshua Chisanga (Newcastle Falcons, England), 21.Kelvin Masai (Homeboyz), 22. Isaac Adimo (Quins), 23. Leo Seje (Impala Saracens)Management: Jerome Paarwater (head coach), Charles Ngovi, Dominique Habimana (Assistant coaches), Richard Ochieng (S&amp;C), Chris Makachia (Physio), Simiyu Wangila (Team manager) email print email print Skipper suffered a rib dislocation against Germany 11 days ago.