A couple accused of killing a nine-year-old boy who was found dead in a car a week ago have been set free by a Bungoma court for lack of evidence. The boy's mother, Christine Simiyu, and her lover, Jude Ng'ang'a, were on Monday freed by the court for lack of sufficient evidence linking them to the murder of the nursery school pupil. Principal magistrate Charles Mutai freed the duo after the investigating police officers told the court there was no evidence linking them to the murder of Enos Barasa. "We have carried out thorough investigations and there is no evidence to help us pin them down," read the police statement. However, the police said they will arrest and arraign the suspects in court again, once they get fresh evidence, said Bumula OCPD Julius Muthini. POST-MORTEM On Tuesday last week, police went to court on the strength of a post-mortem report to ask for miscellaneous charges and were given five days to carry out investigations. The medical expert who carried out the post-mortem at Bungoma County Referral Hospital mortuary revealed that the boy was murdered. "There was an injury on the head, chest and stomach probably from a blunt object, there was accumulation of blood in the hit parts," the autopsy report said. The deceased was buried on Saturday at the family's home in Lwanda village, West Sang'alo Ward, in Kanduyi constituency. The boy was buried in the absence of his mother, who was still in police custody then. NOT ALLOWED He was found dead in a car at the parking lot of Mareba bar in Mateka market, Bumula Sub County, as the mother and her lover had fun in a lodging. The deceased was a nursery school pupil at Matumbufu Primary School. His father, Thomas Barasa, died in 2015. However, family spokesperson Benson Barasa said that after the burial the family had a meeting and agreed that the suspect should not be allowed back to live in that homestead if she is released. "She is free to visit and meet her children but we won't allow her to stay here again, let her get married elsewhere if she so feels," said Mr Barasa.   Post-mortem results indicate that the boy was hit by a blunt object.