Cracks have emerged in Nairobi County’s Opposition team pitting ODM’s Esther Passaris and Wiper’s Rahab Ndambuki for the Woman representative seat. The two are engaged in a bitter tussle that has roped in Governor Evans Kidero and Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) party leader’s wife Ida Odinga. On Sunday Dr Kidero, speaking at the Regina Caeli Catholic Church in Karen, confirmed there were talks between the feuding camps and that soon a solution would be arrived at. “There is a negotiation going on between Passaris and Ndambuki as we speak,” said Dr Kidero. Ms Passaris, who had accompanied the Governor, said there was still time to discuss the matter and that the National Super Alliance (Nasa) coalition will handle it amicably. EASY RIDE “In case we fail to agree, I will put up a spirited fight since I believe I have the support of Nairobi residents,” she told journalists. On Saturday, Mrs Odinga held a meeting with over 2,000 Nairobi women where sharp differences played out in the public between the two candidates. Opposition leaders fear that if not well handled, the feud could give Jubilee candidate and incumbent Rachel Shebesh an easy ride to victory. Dagoretti North MP Simba Arati sparked the debate when he warned that the two will be wasting time if they all go ahead to contest, urging Dr Kidero and Mrs Odinga to prevail upon them and have one of them to challenge Ms Shebesh. However when the two contestants were addressing the women, they both stood their ground with each saying they were stronger than the other. JEERS AND BOOS Ms Ndambuki braved boos and jeers as she accused ODM of short-changing affiliate parties in the City. Nairobi ODM chairman George Aladwa, had urged her to drop her bid before he invited her to address the meeting. But Ms Ndambuki insisted that ODM should not have been handed all the seats by Nasa. “Is Nasa made up of ODM alone? We are equal partners as Wiper, ANC, Ford Kenya and Chama Cha Mashinani…its unfair for ODM to allocate themselves all the top slots in the city,” she protested. Ms Passaris termed herself as the best suited to send home the incumbent while claiming Ms Ndambuki was weak for the task. Nairobi deputy governor Jonathan Mueke urged the duo to hold talks and agree on who to vie while the one who steps aside would be nominated.  