Between 1900 and 1950s, the British government displaced many residents of the Mt Kenya region living in the fertile highlands where tea, coffee and dairy farming was doing well due to a favourable climate. The then Nyeri District, among others, bore the brunt of the tactic, which was put in place to further Europeans’ economic interests. 264 VILLAGES Those displaced were settled in 264 villages, where the government of the day appointed chiefs to run them while white men were allocated large chunks of land to farm. The white settlers could draw their labour from the villages. Colonial chiefs ordered young Kikuyu men to offer wage labour. The villages, which have become more congested with no farming space, now have a population of about 150,000 people.   The residents have been unsuccessfully demanding that their villages be surveyed and title deeds be issued be issued to them, after efforts to have them resettled to their ancestral or alternative lands hit a brick wall. President Uhuru Kenyatta’s directive to Lands Cabinet Secretary Jacob Kaimenyi to issue the families with titles in three weeks was received with renewed hope. However, the residents will only take the announcement serious once its is implemented, because previous governments have failed to do so. CONGESTED The villages are highly congested as the population has been increasing steadily. They have squeezed graveyards, which filled up many years ago, and now they cannot bury their dead without exhuming the bodies of their forefathers.   They no longer dig deep graves, doing so to a maximum of four feet and wary of disturbing their loved ones who passed on years ago. In these villages, there are no farmlands and many residents eke out a living doing menial jobs. In a bid to decongest them, the residents had asked the government to resettle them in the expansive Solio Ranch, but the plan was frustrated, with claims of corruption emerging. SQUATTERS Some of them were supposed to be settled on 15,000 acres in the ranch in Kieni along with 10,000 squatters uprooted from forests. But a section of it — 7,000 acres — ended up in the hands of tycoons said to be powerful and well connected while the squatters were allocated 8,000 acres only.   The move sparked several demonstrations across the county, prompting the Nation Assembly's Lands Committee, led by Tharaka MP Mburi Muiru, to tour the ranch last year to investigate the matter. The committee was also to find out if undeserving persons were allocated land at the expense of squatters, slum dwellers and colonial village occupants. The committee’s report is yet to be released.   In the colonial villages, the occupants lament that they have been living without title deeds for more than 50 years and successive governments have been unable to address their plight despite pledges by local politicians. 2,850 TITLES The residents have also been fighting with churches, which have also laid claim to a share of the land in the crowded villages. In October 2016, a group of the squatters from Iruri and Kiamariga villages in Mathira camped outside Sagana State Lodge seeking audience with President Uhuru Kenyatta, but they were blocked by security officers. Their hopes were dashed after the Head of State, who was hosting the Devolution Conference with the Council of Governors, flew back to Nairobi.   Earlier in the year, Mr Kaimenyi had toured the county and announced that his ministry would issue titles in 200 villages by the end of March 2016. Prof Kaimenyi, speaking at Ruring’u stadium, said 2,850 title deeds would be issued immediately by the President. He also added that the government would buy land at the Solio Ranch to resettle squatters and that beneficiaries would be audited following claims there were irregularities during allocation.   The Head of State asked leaders to accept defeat if they lose during the August 8 elections.