Buruburu police have arrested a house help, who abducted her employer’s nine-year-old child and attempted to murder him. The house help, identified as Jecinta Kanini aged 25, abducted the Class Four pupil Thursday evening in Kariobangi South. “The suspect took the child and boarded a taxi to laundry shop called Carlifonia in Huruma where her boyfriend by the name Lucas Sirengo, aged 27 years was,” Buruburu OCPD, Geoffrey Maiyek said. Mr Maiyek said the woman asked her boyfriend to give her his house keys as she wanted to drop something in the house. She locked the boy in the house and went to buy a new SIM card and registered it using an identity card of one Batula Shariff Yussuf, the OCPD said. “The suspect sent a message to the child’s mother demanding a ransom of Sh100,000. She then warned her that if she reported the matter to the police, her child would be killed,” Mr Maiyek said. M-PESA The distraught mother sent Sh 10,010 via M-Pesa to the number and pleaded with the woman to give her time to raise the balance. The mother recalled that she had seen her house help with an identity card bearing the name Batula Shariff Yussuf when she received the M-Pesa transaction message and alerted the police who started tracing the number. Police say the suspect withdrew Sh9,000. Mr Maiyek said the suspect bought a soda and a sachet of pesticide called Confidor. “She mixed them and gave it to the child to drink, before taking him to a matatu stage. She helped the child board the vehicle and told the conductor to drop him at the Eastleigh Moi Airbase gate. “On reaching the stage and being the only passenger remaining on the vehicle, the conductor became hesitant and asked the boy, who appeared weak if he had the mobile number of his parents. The boy gave him the contacts of the father,” Mr Maiyek said. The father, who was with the police trying to locate the number, went to Eastleigh and found the son with the conductor. The boy was taken to hospital. Police traced the suspect and arrested her in the house of a pastor by the name Christopher Muindi Mutunga of Evangelism Fellowship Centre in Huruma. She had two mobile phones one of which had been used to demand the ransom, two sachets of Confidor pesticide, two identity cards and Sh5,000. Police say the suspect will be charged with abduction and attempted murder.  