Embu Deputy Governor Dorothy Nditi, the woman who was a heartbeat away from becoming the first female governor in the country and making history in the process, is among 10 candidates aspiring to be the county's woman rep. In the thick of Governor Martin Wambora’s first impeachment in 2013, the Senate had ruled that Ms Nditi was not culpable for the allegations that led to the success of the motion at the county assembly level. Had the verdict been upheld, Ms Nditi would have automatically assumed the hot seat, in a decision she says was both painful and an eye opener in the murky waters of politics. But the youthful trained teacher and former director at Tana Water Services says the experience she has had has given her exposure to move to parliamentary politics at the National Assembly. She is vying on a Maendeleo Chap Chap ticket. EXPERIENCE Ms Nditi says her drive to shift from county to national seat was driven by her experience at the devolved unit where there was need for more resources and better working relationship between the two levels of government. She says she was interested in fighting for better entrenchment of the affirmative action and seeking more resources for counties. However, Ms Nditi’s quest faces stiff challenge from incumbent Rose Mitaru, Ms Josephine Wambura of DP, Susan Nyaga of Kanu, Ms Sophia Muthoni Njeru (PNU), Ms Mary Ndunge Mutua (ODM) and Ms Jane Wanjuki (Jubilee). CROWDED RACE The crowded race has also attracted independent candidates Nicera Njoki Mugo, the former Smep, Embu branch manager, who is banking on her role in women empowerment, as well as Monica Syombua and Ms Edith Kanampiu. Ms Mitaru, Ms Nyaga, Ms Syombua, Ms Nditi and Ms Ndunge hail from Mbeere, while the rest are from the more populous Embu area. However, the contest appears to be shaping up to a battle between Ms Nditi, Ms Mitaru, Ms Nyaga and Ms Wanjuki. In the scenario, Ms Ndunge may also just spring a surprise should the huge population of the Kamba community in Mwea, Mbeere South, decide to vote as a block on August 8. ANGLICAN PREACHER Ms Mitaru, an ordained Anglican preacher, banks on her incumbency to win a second term, while Ms Nyaga says she is confident of trouncing her rivals due to her extensive networks. On her agenda, Ms Nditi says she noticed a lot of lethargy and lack of goodwill in the implementation of devolution, and wants both levels of government to work in harmony. “The seat of deputy governor is not as influential as that of woman rep, since you are under someone. I have also noted a lot of gaps in implementation of devolution. I want to go there and ensure there is better working relationship between county and national governments,” says Ms Nditi. She has called for tolerance and fairness during campaigns, saying women have been targeted for attacks especially on social media. “We need to consider that some of us are your grandmothers, mothers, sisters or aunties and need respect. There is life after politics and we must ensure we have peaceful co-existence,” she says of women candidates who appear to be targets of all manner of harassment including physical violence. Ms Nyaga got a shot in the arm after Kanu leader, Gideon Moi campaigned for her at well-attended rallies in Siakago, Runyenjes and Embu towns recently. She has been preaching cohesion among the various communities living in the county, saying it is wrong to consider the tribal factor in the elections. Ms Nyaga hails from Siakago area of the Mbeere region, which is largely semi-arid and marginalised. Ms Mitaru, says she will be not be a pushover claiming that the Jubilee Party nominations were not fair and that she was rigged out.   Embu Deputy Governor Dorothy Nditi has gone through a lot from the family front to the political arena. But her steel-willed character has seen her overcome in equal measure.