Mombasa Senator Hassan Omar who is now vying for the county’s governorship on a Wiper ticket has given Nasa presidential candidate Raila Odinga and his running mate Kalonzo Musyoka demands that they must meet for Coast people if they form the next government failure to which the region will go it alone within three years of their rule. Mr Omar says in a Nasa government, the key ministries of defence, internal security, finance, foreign affairs and infrastructure must be given to Coast people “or else we stop being with them”. Speaking during an iftar dinner he hosted at the Burhani grounds in Mombasa on Wednesday, the hard-hitting senator said past regimes had made people from the coast “flower girls” where they got only minor ministerial positions. INSIGNIFICANT MINISTRIES “We are usually given the insignificant ministries of gender and sports, youth, women affairs and tourism. Do we look like tourists?” he asked. He said the Coast has many educated and able people who can manage the big ministries like others in the country and that if Nasa forms government, it must change the scenario. He also demanded that the perpetual landlessness in the Coast be addressed by the Nasa government within the first three years “or the government forgets the Coast”. JOHO Mr Omar once again accused Governor Hassan Joho of “lacking wisdom and capacity” to lead Mombasa saying he has failed to deliver. “How does anyone ever dream of deciding to hunt for votes for Raila Odinga in Kisumu and Migori? Isn’t that the epitome of lack of wisdom?” he said. Mr Joho announced recently that he would leave the vote hunt in Mombasa to his generals, Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir, Kisauni MP Rashid Bedzimba, Woman Rep Mishi Mboko “and my other soldiers” while he campaigns on the national podium for Mr Odinga. Mr Omar promised to form an all-inclusive county government if elected the Mombasa Governor on August 8 where racial background, colour or creed, religion, gender and political affiliation will not matter. “In my government you will not be employed or given tender because you have a light skin or you are a Muslim or this and that tribe, male or female. You will get what you deserve purely on considerations of merit in a just and transparent manner,” he said. EQUITY He said his government will give both genders equal opportunities to exploit their maximum potential and contribute equally to the development of the county. “Leadership is good policy and agenda. My leadership will be focused on these two. Everyone will be protected and given equal opportunities,” he said. He promised to set up an investment council in the first 100 days of his administration and enhance infrastructural development which is the engine for growth. He said that since Nasa supports ODM candidate Evans Kidero for the Nairobi governor’s seat, it should support him for the Mombasa seat instead of Governor Joho.   Sources say Odinga had been asked to prevail upon Mr Omar to quit the race.