The High Court has permanently quashed the electoral agency's decision to bar Machakos Wiper governor candidate Wavinya Ndeti from the race. In his ruling, Justice George Odunga said the move by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) had no legal basis. Ms Ndeti sued in the High Court earlier this month to challenge the IEBC decision. The electoral agency quashed her nomination after finding that she was a member of two parties at the same time — the Wiper Democratic Movement and Chama Cha Uzalendo. The cancellation followed a petition filed by voter Kyalo Peter Kyuli, who is also a member of the Machakos County Assembly. The IEBC, in its court submissions, argued that Ms Ndeti was guilty of party hopping and should not be allowed to run for election. It said Ms Ndeti did not resign from Chama Cha Uzalendo as required by the law before moving to Wiper. Justice Odunga also ordered the IEBC to include Ms Ms Ndeti's name as Wiper's nominee for the Machakos gubernatorial elections. The general election is scheduled for August 8. "[The] court has found that other issues raised before me as the basis for justification of the committee's decision were not the grounds upon which IEBC made its decision," said Justice Odunga. He added: "The ground upon which it did so was as a result of the consideration of an irrelevant factor [and] hence the decision was unreasonable." Speaking to her supporters outside the court after the ruling, Ms Ndeti thanked Nasa leaders for standing with her. FIDA WELCOMES RULING Meanwhile Wednesday, women lawyers under the umbrella of Fida Kenya welcomed the court ruling on Ms Ndeti, saying it was unfortunate that some politicians had resorted to use courts to stop women candidates from having their names on the ballot. Ms Ndeti’s victory in the courts comes hot on the heels of that of Ms Susan Kihika whose win as the Jubilee Party candidate for Nakuru senate was reinstated by the  High Court after the Political Parties Disputes Tribunal had ruled that her nomination was unconstitutional because she had not resigned as the Speaker of the Nakuru County Assembly. VICTORS In their statement, FIDA Kenya applauded the two women candidates for their triumph, saying they had braved the process and came out victors. “Such court cases have severally been used to deter and intimidate women striving to participate in politics and eventually bow out of the race. Ms Ndeti and Ms Kihika have braved the process and have come out victors,” chairperson, Josephine Mong’are said. She urged IEBC and the relevant institutions to treat women candidates with the fairness they deserve, especially during this period that Parliament has “blatantly refused’’ to pass the two thirds Gender Principle. “Kenyans are coming to terms with the fact that there is an increased number of women who have braved the campaigns to run for elective seats. This is unprecedented and for sure has caused jitters amongst those who think women cannot be leaders,” Ms Mongare said in the statement titled, “trumping court hurdles.’’ Additional reporting by Ibrahim Oruko  