Former World marathon record holder Patrick Makau will attempt to reclaim the record when he makes his third appearance at this year s Berlin Marathon on September 24 in Germany.Makau said the nagging left knee injury that had dogged him since defending his Berlin Marathon title in 2011 with a time of 2 hours, 03 minutes and 38 seconds is no more. I have been preparing well in Ngong not only to make a return in Berlin for the first time since my record-breaking feat, but also stage a repeat show, declared Makau, who has not competed since December, when he failed to defend his Fukuoka Marathon title finishing second. There is no pressure on the knee and I feel much better, said the 32-year-old Makau, who will warm up for Berlin with a half marathon run at Mwea Classic on July 22.It s the 2012 London Olympics marathon bronze medallist Wilson Kipsang, who broke Makau s record with new times of 2:03:23 at the 2013 Berlin Marathon. However, their compatriot Dennis Kimetto became the first man to run below 2 hours and 3 minutes, when he won the 2014 Berlin Marathon in 2:02:57, a record that still stands.Makau believes that contrary to many people s belief, a strong field in Berlin can still provide a recipe for a World record. Olympic marathon champion Eliud Kipchoge, 32, who ran the fastest time in marathon history of 2:00:25 in Italy, where he tried to break the 2 hours barrier in Nike Breaking2 project on May 6 this year, and Kipsang are also heading to Berlin.Kipchoge and Kipsang were named in Kenya s marathon team for the World Championships due August in London but declined the offer, opting to compete in Berlin. These runners are mature enough and can independently break the world record. I believe we are mature enough to fear each other, said Makau. The record for sure can go in Berlin this year. However, Makau said it will take time before the 2 hour mark people are talking about is broken. It can happen with controlled races like what Nike did but not in a competitive and unguided race held on an original course, said Makau, the 2010 Rotterdam and 2012 Frankfurt Marathons winner. email print email print This year s race set for July 22 at at Wang uru Stadium.