The Narok County government has defended Governor Samuel ole Tunai against corruption claims made by Nasa top brass linking him and Deputy President William Ruto to the looting of funds at the Maasai Mara National Reserve. In a statement sent to media houses by Narok Finance Executive Morgan Siloma, the county government said the law does not allow counties to spend local income at the source and hence county officials have no access to the Maasai Mara income as claimed. “County audits have never raised that issue and all audits for the last three years have passed through the Senate for scrutiny,” said the county official, defending the governor. He argued that the office of the Auditor-General and the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) investigated the graft claims, against which the governor successfully defended himself. SENATE COMMITTEE He said a Senate committee adopted a special report by the Auditor-General on the collection of revenue in the game reserve and cleared his government of any wrongdoing in the procurement of revenue collection provider Kenya Airport Parking Services as an agent for the eastern wing of the Maasai Mara National Reserve. Addressing Nasa supporters at Ngosuani Market in Narok West, at Olchoro Market in Narok North, and at a mega rally at the Narok stadium, Nasa presidential candidate Raila Odinga claimed that DP Ruto and Governor Tunai are owners of a company collecting fees from tourists at the eight entrances to the game reserve. The claims were repeated by Nasa co-principals Kalonzo Musyoka, Moses Wetang’ula, Isaac Ruto and Musalia Mudavadi who accompanied him on a two-day tour of Narok.   MALICIOUS The county government, in its response, described the allegations as false and malicious, accusing Mr Tunai’s rival, Patrick ole Ntutu, of misleading his opposition colleagues. “The allegations are false and malicious and can only mean that Mr Odinga has been hoodwinked by Mr Ntutu to lend his support to well-known lords of corruption in Narok,” said the county government statement. “Misleading Raila Odinga into supporting corruption claims is a continuation of Ntutu's efforts to claw back the reforms initiated by Governor Tunai,” the county government stated. CAMPAIGN PROMISES Mr Siloma said Mr Ntutu had been campaigning on the promise of opening the taps of the Mara back to what they were before he took over. The county official further argued that the Ntutu-led group is fighting to control county resources using crude ways. The county government, through its communication office, described the allegations as “the usual, unsubstantiated claims we have been hearing from Patrick Ntutu and the cartels that used to fleece the Mara before Governor Tunai closed up corruption loopholes by contracting the Kenya Airports Parking Services (KAPS) to automate gate collection fees”.   Co-principals claim DP and Narok county government have been stealing tourism proceeds.