Each week, I get tens of questions from readers on various aspects of poultry. While I respond to several questions to individual farmers, today I dedicate this space to giving detailed feedback to all you wanted to know. I wish to keep Kari Improved Kienyeji birds. Advise on housing, feeding, sourcing for day-old chicks and vaccination schedule. Michael Omondi, Siaya For Kienyeji chicken from KALRO, and other improved breeds like Rainbow Rooster and Kuroilers, follow the schedule on the right. I am Samuel. My question is, how do I develop a business plan for 300 layers and 200 broilers. You need first to determine why you need a business plan, that is, is it for seeking funds or for internal planning. A business plan is one of the critical things that will determine whether your agribusiness remains a micro ‘survivalist’ venture or grows to a small and medium-sized enterprise. Your plan should outline the following; disease control, farm biosecurity, housing plans, and general management issues like feeding, watering, and administration. Send me an email for a free business plan template and refer to Seeds of Gold February 4 and 11 for guidance on drafting a winning poultry business plan. I am a small-scale farmer from Kakamega, what are the specifications for a chicken house? Grace Alemoh An ideal poultry house should provide the birds with a comfortable environment to protect them from the extremities of weather like rain, wind, sunshine and predators. The ideal stocking density is two square foot per bird. A coop measuring 20ft long, 20ft wide and 8ft high is adequate to house 500 chickens. Consider covering the front half with a wire mesh and a net to improve aeration. I am excited about my poultry venture although I lost 150 out of 700 birds recently. How often should I change the wood shavings? Koki Patricia For good hygiene, it is recommended to change fortnightly. This will keep your birds free from diseases and pests.    I have a problem with stick fleas on my chickens, ducks and turkeys. I have tried different ways to get rid of them in vain. Kindly tell me how I can eradicate them and the prevention measures. Anto In addition to basic hygiene, pyrethroids (a type of insecticide) are effective against fleas, ticks, lice and ticks. Please refer to an article by Dr Joseph Mugachia, Seeds of Gold, April 22, 2017 for details. At what age should I change from chick mash to growers? Judy Wanjohi Provide chick mash from day one to week 8; growers from week nine to 18 and thereafter layers’ mash. My egg production for layers is very low despite using quality feeds. What could be the problem? Scolastica Chepkemei Productivity in animal depends on genetics, feed conversion efficiency, disease control and quality of feeds. Besides quality of feeds, consider age of birds and light management during the pullet stage. Light is important for sexual maturity of hens. When exposed to daylight, it stimulates the reproductive cycle. Please advise on what I should do to formulate my own feeds. Daniel Maenda First determine the reason for formulating your own feeds. That is, is it to lower cost or to improve quality. Second, making animal feeds is both a science and an art. To make feeds, you need to source quality raw materials, select ingredients, weigh, mix in the right proportions, pack and test the quality of the final product. Please refer to Seeds of Gold January 2 and July 23, 2016 for details.   Find out what is stopping farmer from quitting his 8-5 job to run his thriving poultry enterprise.