National Super Alliance flagbearer Raila Odinga on Monday took the opposition campaigns to his Siaya backyard in a series of rallies. Some of the rallies were marred with chaos after rowdy youths threw stones at the gathering over Mr Odinga’s call for a six piece voting pattern in the region. The opposition leader, while asking residents to vote for him in August, accused the Jubilee administration of mismanaging the country and abetting corruption and nepotism. He said the government had lost its grip on the country “as witnessed in failed development projects, mismanaged economy and unfulfilled election pledges”. PACK AND GO “The days of Uhuru Kenyatta presidency are numbered. They should pack and go and allow Kenyans to have access to quality government services,” he said. He asked his supporters to come out in large numbers and vote for him in the August polls “in order to seal victory in round one”. READ: I'll legalise chang'aa - Raila The Nasa leader said this was the only way that the Nasa slogan of ‘10 million strong’ would be achieved. “I want to call on all my supporters to show their support and love for Nasa and come out in large numbers and vote for  Nasa in the August polls,” said Mr Odinga. END MEETING The opposition chief, during a rally in Rarieda, was compelled to end the meeting after youths allied to area MP Nicholas Gumbo threw stones at the gathering. Mr Odinga, speaking at a rally in Aram trading centre, had urged the residents to vote only for ODM candidates. READ: ODM Mombasa rally ends in chaos “This is my passionate appeal to you Siaya residents, I need you to elect only ODM candidates and increase my lieutenants who will enable me to preside over an effective government,” said Mr Odinga. Trouble started when Mr Odinga invited Siaya Governor Cornel Rasanga to address the crowd. INDEPENDENT CANDIDATES Rowdy youths started chanting in support of gubernatorial candidate Gumbo and woman representative candidate Florence Aluodo, who are running as independent candidates. Efforts by Mr Odinga to calm the youths down did not bear fruit  as they engaged the supporters of Mr Rasanga in running battles. Mr Odinga was accompanied by Nasa co-principal Musalia Mudavadi and governors Rasanga and Sospeter Ojaamong of Busia, senators James Orengo and Moses Kajwang’ (Homa Bay) and several other ODM MPs. Meanwhile, the Nasa presidential flagbearer blamed President Kenyatta for the collapse of the Sh1.2 billion Sigiri bridge in Busia. INITIATED PROJECTS Speaking during a stopover in Ugunja, Mr Odinga said he initiated the project when he was Prime Minister in the Grand Coalition Government only for it to be shoddily implemented by the Jubilee administration. “Jubilee should immediately go home because they have failed Kenyans, their prolonged stay in power will lead the country into more jeopardy,” he said. He said a Nasa government would legalise traditional liquor such as chang’aa to ensure that the locals are economically empowered. LAUNCH MANIFESTO “Uganda has legalised the production of Waragi while Tanzania is producing Konyagi. These products are suitable for consumption” said Mr Odinga. For his part, Mr Mudavadi told the President and his deputy to take full responsibility for the collapse of the Sigiri bridge. He asked the President to take action against the engineers and contractors. The ANC leader also dismissed the Jubilee Party decision to launch a manifesto, arguing a ruling government should instead launch a scorecard.  