Fallouts arising from nominations within Jubilee Party in Kajiado County appear to be deepening with Senator Peter Mositet claiming that his life is in danger after his bodyguards had their firearms withdrawn. Mr Mositet told the Nation on phone that his bodyguards’ firearms were withdrawn on Monday without his knowledge. “I had asked them to accompany me to place that had some tension and they told me to give them time to look for rungus. When I pressed them they said that they had been asked to return their firearms,” he explained. He claimed that the action amounted to political intimidation. “When I called the County Commandant (of police) he told me that there was no ill-motive. He asked me to tell my bodyguards to go and collect their firearms,” said Senator Mositet. NOMINATIONS He now claims that he is being targeted because of the stand he took in the after of Jubilee Party nominations. Mr Mositet complained that he had been rigged out of party primaries after results showed that he had been beaten by Philip Mpaayei. He soon resigned from the party. “When they announced someone I had beaten as the winner, I decided not appeal as this was clear that they did not want me in the party,” he says. “Although I resigned from the party I maintained that I would still support Uhuru Kenyatta. “I made it very clear that as people of Kajiado we will not accept to have projects imposed on us from Nairobi. I am still opposed to those projects and still tell our people to stand firm and elect leaders of their choice,” said Mr Mositet. During the nomination campaigns Senator Mositet was in the same camp with former Kenya Meat Commission chairman Taraiya Ole Kores, who was challenging former Cabinet Secretary Joseph Ole Lenku for the Jubilee Party gubernatorial ticket in Kajiado County. SPECULATION Mr Ole Kores, who lost to Mr Ole Lenku, also claimed that he was rigged out. Although he has not made it official, Mr Ole Kores has appeared in Dr David Nkedianye’s campaign rally, fuelling speculation that he plans to support the ODM governor’s re-election. Mr Mositet is yet to indicate who he will be supporting in the August election but says he will be calling a meeting soon ‘to give direction to the people of Kajiado’. When contacted Kajiado County Commission Harsama Kello acknowledged that the firearms had been repossessed but added that it was a routine exercise carried out for all bodyguards attached to VIPs. “There is absolutely no ill-motive or malice involved in the exercise. “That is an alarming allegation from the senator; it is in fact misplaced. We have no reason to expose him to any danger,” said Mr Kello. Mr Kello explained that the purpose of recalling such firearms is to assess how they have been put to use in a given period. “We subject them ballistic tests to ascertain how they have been used during that period and have them returned. We have asked the officers to come for their firearms,” said Mr Kello. He added that the decision to inform the VIP being guarded on the recall of firearms is left to the bodyguards.  