Jubilee Party leaders Uhuru Kenyatta and William Ruto on Saturday traversed the Nyambene region in Meru, urging residents to turn out in large numbers in August to re-elect them. The rallies started in Nchiru in Tigania West before proceeding to Kianjai, Mutuati, Laare, Maua and Kangeta where the team launched the construction of three roads traversing Igembe Central, Igembe North and Igembe South. Miraa and water issues were the main topics of discussion in all the rallies as residents demanded water projects and sought to know what the government was doing about the lost miraa markets. The political differences between Meru Governor Peter Munya and Senator Kiraitu Murungi were also seen openly as residents rejected attempts by Deputy President Ruto and Mr Murungi to drum up support for Jubilee candidates. In Kianjai, Mutuati, Antubetwe Kiongo and Laare, the crowd shouted “No” as the Deputy President sought to know if they would vote for Mr Kiraitu and Mr Mithika Linturi. President Kenyatta pledged to transform Maua by pumping Sh1 billion for water and sewerage as well as upgrading the Maua stadium. He presented more than 18,000 title deeds to residents of Nyambene region in what he said is Jubilee administration’s plan to improve land ownership. Mr Kenyatta also directed the Lands Cabinet Secretary Jacob Kaimenyi to set up a land registry in Tigania West to ease access to services in the sub-county. ISIOLO AIRPORT The leaders said the construction of the Isiolo airport will ease transportation of miraa to local and regional markets. The President said they were mobilising funds to construct six dams in the county. Mr Kenyatta sought to downplay emerging Nasa influence in Meru, calling on voters to be wary of Mr Raila Odinga’s pledges to help miraa farmers secure markets. “The Jubilee government is the first to make miraa a cash crop. We have pumped more than Sh2 billion into the sector, a first since independence. If anyone comes here and starts chewing miraa, do not be deceived that he is supporting farmers,” Mr Kenyatta said. SUPPORT REGISTRATION He urged farmers to support the ongoing registration drive, saying it would help them join cooperatives through which the government can fund them. “There are people spreading propaganda that the registration exercise is meant to tax farmers. This is propaganda being spread by opponents, do not take it,” he said. Following the residents’ hostility towards an all Jubilee election, Mr Kenyatta urged residents to ensure they elect candidates from friendly parties. “I can see you people have your candidates here. You are free to make a choice but ensure you vote for me. As long as there is no Nasa in this region, we are good to go,” he said. Mr Kenyatta warned the youth against engaging in divisive politics. DAIRY FARMERS On Friday, dairy farmers in Meru were the main beneficiaries of government goodies as the President and his Deputy arrived for campaigns. The President announced a waiver of Sh400 million owed by the Meru Dairy Cooperative Union. The processor, which was established in 1967, has been struggling to clear the debt owed to the government since 1991. The processor’s chief executive Kenneth Gitonga said the money was given by the government of Finland to upgrade the processing plant but farmers were unable to pay, forcing the Kenya Government to pay on their behalf. “We could not pay the debt after the dairy sector collapsed, hitting us hard. We are happy that the government has agreed to waive the debt,” Mr Gitonga said. Mr Kenyatta said his administration was looking for development partners to finance the construction of two dams in Mt Kenya forest for irrigation in dry parts of Meru.   Assessment of seven pledges made ahead of last General Election shows success and failure.