The High Court has quashed the Political Parties Disputes Tribunal’s decision to lock Susan Kihika out of the Nakuru senatorial race. Judge George Odunga on Thursday ruled that the Political Parties Disputes Tribunal (PPDT) did not have jurisdiction to make a finding on a matter that required interpretation of the Constitution. JURISDICTION Tribunals and subordinate courts, he said, must act within their ranks and mandate to ensure proper administration of justice. The tribunal had on Monday ruled that the Jubilee party violated the law by presenting Ms Kimani’s name as its candidate because she had not resigned as required by law. The petition had been filed by Ms Margaret Wanjiru Kiiru, who is an independent candidate for the Nakuru senatorial position. Ms Kimani, through lawyer Tom Ojienda, had argued before the High Court that the tribunal lacked jurisdiction to determine a constitutional question on who is eligible to vie and who is not. Further, she argued that the tribunal acted outside its mandate by determining a dispute between an independent candidate and member of a political party. “It is like outsiders trying to find out how a family runs and they don’t live there,” said Mr Ojienda. IEBC “The PPDT lacked jurisdiction to determine this matter and we urge the High Court to nullify the entire decision made by the PPDT.” He also faulted the tribunal for proceeding to deliver judgment when there was an order stopping further proceedings of the case. The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) and the Jubilee Party, supported the application seeking to set aside the tribunal’s verdict. But Ms Wanjiru, through lawyer Geoffrey Sore, said the entire Constitution contemplates that all courts, including magistrate court and tribunals, will be interpreting the Constitution. He said Ms Kimani should have appealed the decision of the tribunal instead of attempting to scuttle it by alleging unconstitutionality. He also said the dispute is between Ms Wanjiru and the jubilee Party, which is involved in an illegality by presenting a person (Ms Kimani) who is not qualified to be elected the senator of Nakuru County, thus prejudicing her candidature because they are having similar interests.   At the male dominated Nakuru Assembly, Ms Kihika was loved and hated in equal measure.