The look of an office is important because it can greatly affect the mood and productivity of the employees. Mr Lucas Mwangi, the managing director of Suntint Interiors, says the office look also reflects the company’s brand. “They say first impressions matter. An office should show what the company stands for, so companies should invest in work spaces that clearly depict their brands. Interior design is key in achieving this,” says the designer. Glass is a common material in office design which, apart from looking chic, allows in natural light. “Glass is a great partitioning material. It not only helps give an office that stylish look, but also gives visitors and clients a feeling that the company is open and welcoming,” Mr Mwangi says. In addition, glass creates a more transparent and collaborative environment. The following are some window treatments ideas for the office: CURTAINS “Curtains help bring out a stylish look and also shield you from the sun,” says Mr, Mwangi, adding that one important factor to consider is the thickness of the fabric. “For instance, if you need a lot of light during the day and still maintain privacy, then you should consider sheer curtain rather than a heavy drapes,” says Mr Mwangi. In addition, the colour(s) of the curtain should blend in with the colours of the walls, ceiling, floor and furniture, as well as the theme of your office. And depending on the mood you want to create, use bright colours for an energising effect and pastels for a calm ambience. Another factor to consider is curtain length. “Floor-length curtains not only look more stylish, but also make the ceiling look higher than it actually is. This is a compliment to the office space,” says Mr Mwangi. However, Mr Mwangi notes that curtains can be difficult to fit on v-shaped or other odd-shaped windows. They also hide dirt and have to be cleaned regularly, unlike other window treatments like wooden blinds, which require only occasional  wiping. WINDOW FILMS The  most preferred window films are the decorative and anti-solar ones. “Decorative window films are usually fitted on glass surfaces like internal office partitions to add beauty or create privacy,” says Mr Mwangi. Meanwhile, anti-solar films mitigate the damaging effects of the sun’s rays by reducing glare and preventing furniture from fading. BLINDS “Most style-conscious clients prefer horizontal or venetian blinds, while those looking for a rustic look might prefer bamboo  or wooden blinds,” says Mr. Mwangi. Roller blinds, he adds, are also an w option. “Some of them can screen sunlight or block out sunlight,” he says. Apart from the cost, Mr Mwangi says, you should also consider  is the location of your office and environmental factors you are exposed to. “Horizontal wooden or aluminum blinds are ideal for a very windy office as the wind can easily pass through the slats without blowing the blinds up and down. However, vertical and roller blinds are not ideal for a windy locality,” he says. WINDOW GRAPHICS Window graphics are a clever way toattract attention in an office. Mr Mwangi says. “Most businesses use window graphics on the exterior windows. This makes sense due to their properties and compatibility with natural right,” he says. “Window graphics can easily be used to brand the wall of an office or business and they are best done on glass surfaces. Besides, window graphics stick well on the frames of aluminum and steel profiles holding the glass,” notes Mr Mwangi. He adds that window graphics create privacy in glass-partitioned offices and also reduce the amount of light entering an office. NEW TRENDS There are ongoing improvements, with smart glass soon to replace window films, Mr Mwangi says. “Smart Glass is a window film that can be adjusted to create privacy in a room or make the glass transparent. Other innovations are motorised blinds and curtains, which will replace manually operated blinds and curtains, and are ideal for high windows,” he says.    