Home players will be looking to excel as the Britam Kenya Open enters the semi-final stage on Friday at the Nairobi Club. Three Kenyans are in the men s singles semi-finals, while another two will line-up in the women s category for a place in Saturday s final.In the men s action, top seed and defending champion Ismail Changawa will be up against the fast-rising Sheil Kotecha in an all-Kenyan affair, while the other duel will pit second seed Duncan Mugabe of Uganda against Kenya s Ibrahim Kibet Yego.The women s matches have also served up some interesting draw, with champion Shufaa Changawa of Kenya facing Argentine Natalie Coronel, as Kenya s Sneha Kotecha plays Celestine Avomo Ella of Gabon.The first men s semi-final guarantees the host country a representative in the final in what should be a cracking tie.Surprisingly, it will be the first meeting between the pair, with Kotecha into his first semi-final after a 6-1, 6-4 win over compatriot Albert Njogu in Thursday s quarters match. Mental strength carried the day for me today and I think it will also come in handy against Ismail in the semis. He is a top player, a role model to the young players and it promises be a great encounter, Kotecha said Thursday.Changawa on the other hand needed to be at his best as he came from a set down to see off ninth seed Ernest Habiyambere of Rwanda 4-6, 6-3, 6-1. The Rwandese came out guns blazing stunning the Kenyan in the opening set with some powerful serves.The second set was a topsy-turvy affair before the top seed finally broke at 4-2 after several rallies and went on to level the contest. Changawa improved in the deciding set, hitting 13 aces to seal his place in the semis. It was a tough match, Ernest pushed me and I had to be at my best to come back. It gets tougher in each stage but I am up to the challenge, Changawa said.The other last four encounter will see fourth seed Kibet eyeing revenge against two-time winner Mugabe. Kibet has lost twice to the Ugandan in their previous meetings last year. Kibet comfortably beat Rwandese Olivier Havugimana 6-1, 6-0 to reach the semis as Mugabe beat Tanzania s Emmanuel Nicodemo Maliya 6-1, 6-2 in the quarter-final encounter.In the women s matches, Shufaa is wary of Coronel, who is appearing in the Kenya Open tournament for the first time. email print email print