Since the end of President Mwai Kibaki’s first term in office, Kenya has never been the same. The 2007 political season was the ugliest that Kenyans have ever witnessed, with hatred and venom oozing from every tongue and every pen, every computer and every smart-phone. It is said that those who forget the dark lessons of history are doomed to repeat them, and a few events in the past few weeks clearly illustrate that some people have chosen to disregard everything that led to the most calamitous interlude in Kenya’s history. The 2005 constitutional referendum, which one faction in the then Narc government, headed by President Kibaki, lost made his a lame-duck presidency for two years, weakening it considerably. The 2007 disputed election results merely added fuel to deep-felt emotions borne out of perceived historical injustices, and some politicians took advantage of the general disenchantment to whip up ethnic violence. During that year’s campaign period, the monster of negative ethnicity reared its head and nearly devoured this country. THAT WAY We seem to be headed that way this year, too, and this is because very few people were punished for incitement to violence, or for abetting, financing and even applauding murder and mayhem, indicating that impunity has its own rewards. The descent into primitive bloodletting was preceded by an extremely dirty war waged on social media and on the campaign trail – the same things that are happening today despite the efforts of our emasculated peacekeeping institutions. The vitriolic exchanges on social media today are almost identical to those of 2007, though the ethnic backgrounds of some of the combatants may have changed and they are now allies in government. However, those politicians who use negative ethnicity, hate speech and outright incitement as tools to win elections have not changed. Such people would not be averse to using violence for the same ends if everything else failed. HAVE RESENTMENT The fusillade of insults on social media and the brainless arguments and counter-arguments have at their very root resentment of those ethnic communities perceived to have monopolised political power. This is a dangerous thing to say at this volatile moment in our election cycle, but however uncomfortable it may make us feel, it needs saying. Until Kenyans come up with a system of governance in which the majority tribes feel they have a stake in sharing their country’s resources, there will always be a problem. The point is, some politicians have internalised violence as the only solution if they feel the tide is turning against them. Just recently, a tribal bigot who seems to have perfected the art of blackmailing others with threats of violence should members of a community which is not indigenous to the North Rift vote against him did it again. He does not ask himself why these people are not fond of him. Could it be that he has always antagonised them because they don’t belong to his tribe? TOTAL RETHINK A total rethink of our priorities is urgently required. The 2010 Constitution, though a noble document, has not worked at all in that respect. Even the much-touted devolution has not pulled us from the stinking tribal cesspit. How about recognising the reality of our condition and trying out a rotational presidency? Perhaps, that way, we shall become one nation someday. This is a strange thing to suggest, and it is totally undemocratic, if not impractical, but there are brainy people out there who can devise a way to ensure the diffusion of political power to counter perceived lack of inclusivity which breeds animosity. The closest we ever came to a government of national unity was the first three years of the Narc administration – well before the acrimony-prone nusu mkate government. *** I suppose Kenyans should be glad to see the last of the 11th Parliament, for it has not served them at all well, but I am afraid it won’t happen. They will elect more of the same this August. Although this Parliament is reputed to have done a sterling job in terms of legislation, it will be chiefly remembered for the disorderliness of MPs, their lack of commitment and voraciousness. For instance, in March, they voted to give themselves a Sh2.5 billion package as severance pay and compensation because their terms will be cut short by eight months. I don’t believe the new crop will be any different.  Magesha Ngwiri is a consulting editor. andrewngwiri@gmail.com  