Meru Governor Peter Munya has threatened to organise demonstrations across the county over what he termed as intimidation and harassment of his supporters by national government administrators. Addressing a mega rally at Kinoru stadium on Friday, the PNU leader said the administrators were engaging in politics by supporting Jubilee candidate Kiraitu Murungi, who is also the region's senator. PLOT TO END HIS ERA He claimed the administrators, including chiefs, had earlier been called for a meeting where they were "incited against him" and asked to back Mr Murungi. "Two weeks ago, they called all chiefs for a meeting sponsored by Mt Kenya Foundation. "Mr Kiraitu and Igembe South MP Mithika Linturi were invited. They were told I am not pro-government and that I should not be elected. Most of the chiefs opposed it because they are our supporters," Mr Munya alleged. However, Mt Kenya Foundation national coordinator Mutuma Nkanata disputed the county boss' claim, clarifying they have never held any meeting targeting candidates in Meru. "Our foundation engages in programmes for the greater good of the community. I am not aware of such a meeting in Meru," Mr Nkanata said. BILLBOARDS VANDALISEDMr Munya accused a section of administrators and police bosses of being partisan. "When PNU billboards were vandalized in January, we reported to the police but no one has ever been arrested. "After Mr Kiraitu erected billboards without paying and were destroyed by unknown people, five of my supporters were arrested," Mr Munya said. The governor added that he will proceed with peaceful campaigns and will only toss aside the threat if his backers are no longer harassed. SEVEN ARRESTEDMr Murungi said that the more than 10 billboards cost him more than Sh300,000 and were paid for through a company in Nairobi. The billboards in Meru town were vandalised on Wednesday night and seven suspects were arrested and arraigned in court. Senator Kiraitu recorded a statement at the Meru police station and condemned the act, accusing Mr Munya of playing cheap politics. "This is intimidation from my opponent but with or without billboards I will win this election by a landslide. Mr Munya’s campaign is full of violence and intimidation contrary to code of conduct," he said. Mr Munya said he will not be arm twisted into supporting a party or a candidate.  