Media personality Betty Kyalo is no stranger to internet trolls, especially those who write mean comments with the aim of body shaming her (making potentially humiliating comments about one s body size).So for social media users who feel the need to ask her to hit the gym and shed some weight, here s her response: I m not perfect but I love my body, I m hot . I remember that comment went something like Betty nakupenda lakini jo!..hit the gym, Kyalo said of a fan who thought she could do with cutting some weight. And I look at myself in the mirror and I m like oh my goodness, chick, you got it going on, what do you mean I m fat? I think I look fabulous and I m going to wear what I want, go out there and kill it. I m not going to be a victim of that, I know who I am, I m a solid woman and if you want to body shame me try someone else .Speaking to Showbuzz, Kyalo said the mean trolls do not faze her, if anything they are the ones who need to deal with their own underlying issues. If you go online to write something nasty about someone it means that you should first check yourself because you re probably dealing with issues to do with self-esteem, she said.Meanwhile Kyalo recently was diagnosed with fatigue but she is back on her feet. Sometimes you don t realise how tired you are until your body says no, stop. I was travelling for business and I mixed it with pleasure, I didn t realise how tired I was. I wasn t getting enough sleep. When I came back I went straight to work and that means being a news anchor, my business Posh Palace and the most important of all being a mum to my baby Ivana, Kyalo said.She continued I was going on air and at 9:37 on a Tuesday, I remember it so well, I started shaking and I had to leave. When I went to the hospital they checked for everything, even my blood sugar levels, and they didn t find anything. They finally told me I was suffering from fatigue, I was told to go home and rest but I m feeling better. It happens to everyone. email print email print