Students joining primary school teachers training colleges will be required to score at least a C+ to qualify for admission. Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development (KICD) Director Julius Jwan on Tuesday said the students will also pursue a diploma, not the certificate courses currently offered. “Such proposals contained in a draft framework for Teacher Education in Kenya are expected to improve the calibre of graduates teaching in primary schools, besides ensuring they remain globally competitive,” said Dr Jwan in a press statement Monday. The previous admission grade was C. The trainees will also learn how to handle pupils with special needs. He said learners in special schools now require specialised education to effectively compete with their counterparts from regular schools given that they sit for similar national examinations. CURRICULUM Dr Jwan said unlike before, representatives of learners with special needs participated in developing the proposed curriculum. “Teachers trained on special needs for various categories of learners are part of the pilot phase. We are able to tap into their experience to enrich the competency based curriculum that emphasises on continuous assessment,” Dr Jwan said in Nairobi. He said the KICD is working with other government agencies and experts to ensure the proposed curriculum that seeks to replace the current 8-4-4 system meets the emerging national educational needs. “The current system has been criticised for being too exam oriented at the expense of other learners’ abilities,” he said. Dr Jwan added that it is wrong to condemn learners on the basis of one national examination. Piloting of the proposed curriculum is under way. It is targeting more than 30,000 learners drawn from the 47 countries. PILOT PHASE The outcome of the piloting will determine if the government will go ahead and roll it out in all schools. The government has identified 470 schools for piloting this academic year. Of these, two in each county must be enrolling learners with special needs. Dr Jwan said teachers trained on special needs for various categories of learners are part of the pilot phase. Early Childhood Education (ECD) teachers will also be required to go through the same training process. KICD Senior Assistant Director for Special Needs Education Beth Kahuthia said that currently trainee teachers are only instructed on how to teach regular learners, adding that only after their P1 training do teachers choose whether to go for a diploma in special-needs education.  