Presidential candidate Raila Odinga and his running mate Kalonzo Musyoka have differed in public over the six piece voting pattern. During an Iftar (fast-ending evening meal during Ramadhan) hosted by Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho on Friday night, Mr Musyoka urged his colleagues in ODM to stop advocating for the election of their candidates as this will create unfairness. “Don’t say ODM, ODM ODM and take everything because that will leave us with nothing,” said Mr Musyoka. He added, “We have Amani National Congress and other partners in Nasa. Let’s stop asking voters to elect only ODM candidates,” he said. When it was Mr Odinga's turn to speak, the opposition leader asked voters to elect ODM candidates saying even though they were in a coalition, each party was drumming up support for its own candidates. “I know Mr Musyoka will advocate for Wiper, Mr Mudavadi ANC, Mr Moses Wetangula Ford-Kenya and Mr Isaac Ruto will say let rain come from the skies (Chama Cha Mashinani's symbol is rain drops). But I say elect ODM candidates in Mombasa,” said Mr Odinga. The leaders urged voters to elect candidates in the Nasa coalition in order to send the Jubilee government home on August 8. “This government, more than any other has persecuted Muslims. Until now, the whereabouts of some Muslim youths and sheikhs is not known and we Muslims are being treated like second class citizens,” said Governor Joho. Mr Odinga, Mr Musyoka, Mr Mudavadi, Mr James Orengo, Mr Joho, MPs Junet Mohamed (Suna East), Abdulkadir Mohamed (Mbalambala),  the former Deputy Speaker of the National Assembly Farah Maalim and Abdulswamad Nassir (Mvita) all condemned the Jubilee government for alleged extrajudicial killings of Muslims. Mr Joho urged Muslims fight for their rights and against injustices saying they have suffered under past and present regimes. “I have been tortured so much by the Uhuru Kenyatta government, but every time they put me down, I rise up because I believe only in God. I don’t fear any human being because they have the same life like me from God,” he said. He urged all Muslims to vote for Nasa saying it will look after their interests. He called on his fellow Muslim legislators to be at the forefront in fighting for the Muslims’ rights,” he said.  