Ulinzi Warriors and Co-op Bank will be battling for leadership in Kenya Basketball Federation men’s Premier League as they play critical second leg matches at Nyayo National Stadium Gymnasium this weekend. On Saturday, Ulinzi Warriors, who lost their 12 match unbeaten record to underdogs Umoja last weekend, play Kenya College of Accountancy-University at 2.30pm. Co-op Bank, who have also lost one match to Ulinzi Warriors, have two tight matches this weekend. on Saturday, they play USIU-A Tigers from 4pm and tackle Thunder on Sunday at the same venue from 4pm. Ulinzi Warriors and Co-op Bank have so far each lost one match. Ulinzi Warriors team manager Stephen Bartilol said that they will take all their second leg matches seriously after having paid a heavy prize of underrating newcomers Umoja. Coach William Balozi said: "We are still a strong side even after having released three newly recruited players to join the Military training." He said in the absence of trio Tonny Okello, Mohammed Yoyo and Collins Ligari, experienced William Ochieng, Eric Mutoro and Teberius Menya have the capacity to deliver victory. KCA-U, who narrowly defeated Lions 63-62 after recovering from a 57-71 loss to Blades, will require to fight hard through David Omondi, Auka Awuor and Alphonse Muchiri to dismantle Ulinzi’s physical offensive system of play. USIU-A Tigers were humiliated 92-55 by Ulinzi Warriors last weekend but strong man Yoni Wanambiro, Alex Ramazani and Derrick Juma will use all the tricks in the book to disappoint coach Carey “T9’’ Oketch’s Co-op Bank. Thunder, who lost 57-79 to KPA in Mombasa, are also expected to put pressure on Co-op Bank on Sunday. The bankers, who are determined to clinch the title they last won in 2013, have lately been relying on rising star Sila Awuor to score winning baskets. He will be backed by Job Byron, James Mwangi and Fidel Muga in the battle for the maximum points. Thunder, led by celebrated shooting guard Griffins Ligare, Mart Garton and Patrick Koriana, will start as favourites to win against Trailblazers after dropping one key point to KPA. Although Trailblazers were hit hard 54-48 by Blades last weekend, Thunder cannot afford to underrate them. LIONS FACE UMOJA After registering a morale boosting 54-48 win over giants Ulinzi Warriors, Umoja will return a strong side as they confront Lions on Saturday. Lions worked hard only to lose narrowly 63-62 to KCA-U and Harrison Kaudia and Dennis “Dikembe’’ Opiyo will be ready to confront their opponents to garner two points. In the women’s Premier League, much improved USIU-A Flames, who beat Western Delight 80-32, will entertain fellow students Kenyatta University Oryx. In Mombasa on Saturday, KPA men and women’s teams will host Nairobi-based Equity Bank sides in their first and second leg matches. Women’s champions Equity Bank will lock horns with KPA at 2pm before men’s champions KPA host Equity Bank from 4pm. Sunday at Nyayo, Lions will have a date with KCA-U, Storms to face Eagle Wings, Umoja to tackle KCA-U while Terrorists to host Nakuru Club. At Upper Hill School, Abel Kimondo’s Barclays Bank will meet Kenya Airports Authority, Footprints play Gladiators, 4-Christ lock horns with Riara University while KDF Morans to entertain Emyba. FIXTURES Saturday: At Nyayo: KCA-U v ANU (8.30am), Oryx v USIU-A Flames (10am), Umoja v Lions (11.30am), Trailblazers v Thunder (1pm), Ulinzi Warriors v KCA-U (2.30pm), Co-op Bank v USIU-A Tigers (4pm). Upper Hill School: Neosasa v NIBS (8.30am), Blazers v 4-Christ (10am), Little Prince v Riara University (11.30am), ANU v Lakeside (1pm), Terrorists v KAA (2.30pm). Kisumu Sports Ground: Lakeside v Zetech University (10am), Kisumu Lady Bucks v Masaku Sparks (11.30am). Menengai High School: Nakuru Club v Barclays Bank (10am). Eldoret: Eldonets v Pirates (10am). KPA Makande Gymnasium: KPA v Equity Bank (2pm), KPA-men v Equity Bank (4pm). Sunday: in Mumias: Nebulas v Zetech (10am), Western Delight v Zetech (11.30am). Upper Hill School: World Hope v Lakeside (8.30am), KDF Morans v Emyba (10am), MKU Thika v Neosasa (11.30am), Footprints v Gladiators (1pm), Barclays Bank v KAA (2.30pm), Riara University v 4-Christ (4pm).Nyayo: Daystar v Strathmore (8.30am), Terrorists v Nakuru Club (10am), Umoja v KCA-U (11.30am), Storms v Eagle Wings (1pm), Trailblazers v Lions (2.30pm), Co-op v Thunder (4pm).  