Jubilee Party MPs campaigning for the re-election of President Uhuru Kenyatta under the  UhuRuto Express campaign team have asked the Nasa presidential candidate to quit the race if he does not trust the electoral body to deliver credible election. The MPs have, however, also cautioned Jubilee supporters not to underrate Raila Odinga and to turn up in their numbers to vote for President Kenyatta. The leaders comprising of sitting members of both the county and national assemblies pitched camp in Naivasha Frdiay and will be in Nakuru Saturday.   Speaking in Mai Mahiu, they said the opposition leader is hitting at the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) because he has sensed defeat in the August 8 polls. Led by Naivasha MP John Kihage, the leaders who included those who lost in the Jubilee party primaries accused the former prime minister of insincerity accusing him of trying to intimidate the electoral body. “If Raila does not agree with what the IEBC is doing, let him quit the race and go home. He is known to criticise anything that does not favour him and he should leave the commission alone,” said Mr Kihage. The leaders said they will mobilise their resources and voters to ensure that the president gets one hundred percent voter turn out in Jubilee Party strongholds.   The politicians who are mainly from the Mount Kenya region, led by Kigumo MP Jamleck Kamau, launched the UhuRuto Express at Kamukunji grounds in Nyeri town last week. On Friday, the group embarked on a voter mobilisation roadshow campaign in Mai Mahiu, Naivasha and Gilgil in Nakuru County. Among the leaders who were present included MPs Joseph Kiuna (Njoro), Nelson Gaichuhie (Subukia) Esther Gathogo (Ruiru), Isaac Mwaura (Nominated) Njogu Barua (Gichugu) Nakuru Woman representative Mary Mbugua and Jubilee Party parliamentary nominee for Naivasha Jayne Kihara. The leaders vowed to work together in order to deliver votes to the president and his deputy William Ruto. MP Mwaura urged supporters to come out in large numbers to vote for Jubilee Since the opposition had no good intentions for the country. Mr Mwaura who failed to secure Jubilee Party ticket for Ruiru parliamentary seat after defecting from the Odinga led Orange Democratic Movement said the opposition was interested in causing chaos in the country. Ms Gathogo claimed Nasa was not ready for the elections, saying that is why they were casting aspersions on the ability of the IEBC to conduct fair and free elections. “It is a game of musical chairs and Nasa should opt out if they are not ready to participate in the elections,” said the Ruiru MP. However, during their numerous stops, the local MP-Mr Kihagi had to calm nerves as supporters of Jubilee candidate Jayne Kihara and Independent candidate Ndegwa Nguthiru engaged in supremacy battles. Nakuru Woman Representative Mary Mbugua  challenged Nasa leaders to state their stand over the outcome of the August elections. “Mr Kenyatta has publicly stated that he will accept the outcome and respect the will of the people…from Nasa it is a silence,” said Ms Mbugua. Others present included Njogu Mbarua  and were later joined Othaya MP Mary Wambui and Gilgil lawmaker Mathenge Ndiritu.  