The rift between Meru Governor Peter Munya and Senator Kiraitu Murungi continues to widen as the two leaders fight over the booing of Jubilee candidates on Saturday during a tour by President Uhuru Kenyatta.Mr Munya has said that he kept away from President Kenyatta s tour of the county to avoid a backlash while Mr Murungi accuses the governor of ferrying youths to humiliate him.Addressing Muslims after Idd-ul-Fitri prayers on Monday, Mr Munya disputed claims by his main rival that he had ferried his supporters to the Jubilee meetings to heckle him.The governor said the reaction by residents who rejected attempts by the president and his deputy William Ruto to drum up support for Jubilee candidates indicated his party (PNU) is gaining ground.POPULAR I decided to go to the gym and relax because I was unwanted in the president s meetings. But everywhere they went, the people shouted Munya . They realised that there are people who own this area. Meru also has its owners, Mr Munya said. In every town the President and his deputy addressed residents, my work is there. In Meru Town, they were standing on a bus stage done by the county government. While they were promising to do roads in Maua, I have already done it. There is no way my opponents could say Munya has not performed, the governor added.PEACE LOVINGMr Munya said he was not behind the heckling of Meru Jubilee candidates, adding that he kept away because he loves peace. The senator should open his eyes and see that the people have rejected him. He is always blaming me yet I am innocent, Mr Munya said.However, Senator Murungi on Sunday insisted that Mr Munya was behind the heckling that saw the President and the DP fail to effectively drum up support for Jubilee candidates.He condemned the incident where he had to cut short his speech in Maua stadium after a crowd shouted him down.IGEMBE SUPPORT It is not the first time the governor has ferried youths to heckle when I have meetings in Maua. He doesn t want people from Igembe to hear my policies and agenda for the county. He knows without support from Igembe, he cannot get any votes, Mr Murungi said in a press briefing at his home in Nkubu Town.He said the heckling in Maua was a shame to Meru leaders, adding that the county boss is hell-bent on causing chaos. I will not relent [in] campaigning in Igembe and other parts of Meru. I will convince the locals to work with me in sending Mr Munya home. If you fear bees you cannot [get] honey, he said.PRO-MUNYA CHANTSThe pro-Munya chants in the Nyambene region forced the President to urge voters to make their independent choice of leaders in Meru but avoid supporting Nasa.Mr Murungi thanked residents for turning out in large numbers to show backing for the Head of State in his re-election bid.Meanwhile, Mr Munya wants national government officials to ensure projects launched by President Uhuru Kenyatta continue uninterrupted.He said incidents where earthmoving machines leave immediately after the President flags them off should not be witnessed in Meru.During the two-day Meru campaign tour, President Kenyatta launched construction of six roads across the county.Speaking at Kagaene Catholic Church on Sunday, Mr Munya lauded the president for launching the roads and pledging government funding for six dams in the county. We have been making noise about the roads and we are glad that they have been launched. We will continue calling for their completion. We know the president is doing his work but his handlers in Meru may be failing him. Let them ensure the contractors do not leave the sites, Mr Munya said. email print email print President Kenyatta and DP William Ruto are taking their vote hunt to Meru.