Q. My contract letter says that I am required to work for eight hours daily, however, many are the days that I work overtime without any compensation. Do I have the right to decline working overtime without pay?  Yes you do. Your contract is a legally binding document, and non-compliance without reasonable cause can be good reason to initiate dispute. A contract will contain critical information ranging from hours of work, leave entitlement, salary and benefits to duties to be performed. Every new job comes with excitement, and sometimes employees may sign contracts that shortchange them once fully on board. It is therefore important to read through the contract engagement letter to be sure it meets your expectations. Back to your question, you have the right to decline working extra hours without compensation, especially if this has become the norm. Present your grievance in a professional manner, citing how many hours you have had to work late and how these hours translate to days and months. Link this to how it infringes on your working hours as signed in your contract. Also check what your contract provides for in regard to overtime, or how this is provided for within HR policies. You will use this argument to present your case to ensure it is solid and that your complaint will not be classified under insubordination for refusing to undertake assigned duties. Once you have all details, document your grievance to your supervisor or HR office. In some situations, employees tend to give extra hours out of goodwill. If the relationship with an employer is good and employees fully own the vision of their employer, they tend to go out of their way to ensure goals are achieved. Many employees give discretionary effort because they know the success of their employer translates to better rewards and job security. It would be sad to have employees lock up to leave on the hour when a little extra time would secure a good business opportunity. However, when good and genuine effort is abused, there is need to seek compensation, either through overtime or time off. Weigh your options and make the right call.  