Two weeks ago, I lost a dear friend to cancer. Ours was a friendship begun in high school, so I knew her for a long time. She was still a long way from 40, so she died young, leaving behind two young daughters. In one of our last meetings, I remember suggesting that we (we were in the company of several other high school friends) hold one big party when we turned 40. After all, I keep hearing it said that life really begins at 40, whatever that means. They all heartily agreed that 40 was a milestone that deserved to be celebrated, though I highly suspect that there is nothing special about 40, that it is just a number, that life still runs its course, not changing or pausing just because you are a year older.  If you’re about to turn 40 though, please ignore me. Anyway, at the time, this friend had fought cancer for almost two years, and we were all sure that eventually, she would beat it. Every time we spoke or met, even when she was in obvious pain, she would say that she was fine, or that she would be fine, and because of that, those who knew her believed that she would beat this disease. Her faith was so great, so unquestioning, it is unbelievable. But what I really admired about her is that she never stopped living, not for a second, not even when the cancer weakened her such that she had to use crutches to walk. I will never forget that day she turned up for one of our meetings supported by crutches, looking weak and sick, but determined to go on with the business of life. No pity party for her, strong woman that she was. I was so challenged, I cannot even begin to describe how much she encouraged me that day, and what valuable lessons she taught me that day. All the times I have complained and acted as if the world is about to come to an end because of minor factors such as being kept waiting, getting rained on or not getting my way flashed before my eyes and I recognised how selfish, ungrateful and entitled I am sometimes. Come to think of it, as long as you’re in good health, you have little, or nothing to complain about. Disease ravages you and makes you incapable of doing things that you had taken for granted, such as eating, walking, working – if Kenya’s famous traffic jams are the only thing that tends to work you up, you are very lucky indeed. Send a silent prayer of thanks to heaven. The last time I saw her, she was back to her old self: smiling, laughing, inquisitive, healthy and strong. She was ecstatic about having made it from work, (yes, she still went to work) to our meeting point in the chaotic city centre. The last time she was in town by herself, she had fainted on the streets. Yes, she would beat the cancer; that I was sure of, amazed at how radiant she looked. We thanked God in advance for her complete healing, and that evening, we excitedly informed those that had not made it to the meeting about the miracle we had just witnessed. The miracle was not to be though. Three weeks later, she passed on. I was shocked because I never saw it coming. I never saw it coming. Once, when she had just been diagnosed with cancer, she encouraged us to make a habit of going for regular screening, since this was the only way to catch the cancer early. Most of us only go to hospital when we feel extremely sick – when that headache no longer responds to painkillers, when a concoction of sugar, salt and water does not cure the diarrhea, when the toothache makes our heads pound, and for the men, when they resort to walking on their knees. We view screening for cancer as a waste of time and money. We never consider that it might happen to us. If my friend were alive today, she would tell you to go for that test today. Rest in peace Sarah Njeri Naya.  cnjunge@ke.nationmedia.com; Twitter: @cnjerius. The writer is the Daily Nation features editor  *** FEEDBACK “I am blessed and highly favoured.” Strange response to greetings and our children should not be taught that way. Martin I have some strong feeling the teacher(s) of this school  are religious extremist. The children are being indoctrinated into extreme religious ideologies. At age three, what the child needs is socialisation and not ideologies. Just find out what makes ISIS or Jihadist keep on growing. It is purely religious indoctrination. As a parent I couldn’t think twice changing the school. Nick They should be taught life skills in social,emotional and intellectual encounters and to know God. Dennis There’s nothing strange in the greetings. There are many other alternative schools that the parent could transfer her daughter to, but she should be aware of the range of risks that exist today in our diverse world. Think twice before jumping alternatives. Joe Teachers are to their learners, “know it as it is.” This brings to mind many issues in christian faith. We received the Gospel many centuries later. I am driving to the point that Christmas celebrations, Holy matrimony and funeral services are not Gospel practices. Those who introduced the Gospel came  with teh practices. Just as with children who stick to what the teachers taught them so have christians stuck to what was taught  them even if it is not Biblical. Wicuranie.  