Meru Governor Peter Munya missed this year s Madaraka Day celebrations and accused national government officials of keeping him in the dark on the venue for the event.There was confusion on where the county celebrations would be marked, until around 12 noon, when Meru County Commissioner Wilfred Nyagwanga said he would be attending the celebrations at Nkubu stadium in Imenti South.Earlier, there was information that the celebrations would be held at Mikinduri Primary School in Tigania East.Only a handful of residents attended the celebrations, where the county commissioner was accompanied by police bosses.Mr Munya said he could not attend the celebrations at Nkubu stadium because he did not know where the county commissioner had gone.JOINT COMMITTEESpeaking to the Nation, Mr Munya said he wrote to the county commissioner two weeks ago informing him that this year s Madaraka celebrations would be marked at Kinoru stadium. The national event is organised by a joint committee of county and national government officers. My officers wrote the letter to Mr Nyagwanga but he never responded until this week. I was told the county commissioner had picked Mikinduri Primary School yet I was not consulted. I was ready to go to this school, but I was kept in the dark about the celebrations, the governor said.He added, It seems I was not wanted during this year s Madaraka Day celebrations. If they perceive me as a supporter of the opposition, they should know that the law mandates the governor to preside over national events at the county level. Even the opposition leader Raila Odinga and President Uhuru Kenyatta are together in Nyeri. The county commissioner defended the change of venue, saying they had intelligence reports that supporters of political rivals would clash at Mikinduri. I do not want to be where people are fighting. My work is to ensure peace prevails. We had information that some people had acquired machetes ahead of the celebrations, Mr Nyagwanga said.He warned politicians who breach peace would be prosecuted.Last year, Jamhuri Day celebrations in Meru were disrupted after supporters of Mr Munya and those of Senator Kiraitu Murungi clashed. email print email print Nyagwanga says venue changed over intelligence reports.