The National Super Alliance on Thursday took their campaign to Trans Nzoia, where they dismissed the recent tour of the region by President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto. Presidential candidate Raila Odinga and his running mate Kalonzo Musyoka led the alliance's co-principals Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetang’ula in hitting out at the Jubilee administration for what they said is having failed to address the problems of Kenyans and impoverishing the country's nationals. Mr Odinga said the government was insensitive to the plight of Kenyan farmers by importing maize at Sh4,600 after refusing to pay local farmers Sh3,000. “Farmers in the grain basket were also supplied with substandard fertiliser, which is threatening food security,” said Mr Odinga. The Nasa chief decried runaway corruption in government as Kenyans grapple with high cost of living, citing Sh215 billion lost through the Eurobond scandal. “Jubilee has mortgaged the lives of Kenyans,” he said. “Let’s remove them from power for Kenyans to breathe again.” Mr Odinga, who on Tuesday claimed the government was training the military to act as electoral officers in the August 8 General Election, asked Inspector-General of Police Joseph Boinnet not to allow police to be misused during the elections. He assured locational chiefs and other provincial administration officers that they will be retained in his government, saying Nasa will only restructure the system to perform effectively. “We will also improve the working conditions of our police officers and pay them well,” said the ODM leader at Sibanga. The former Prime Minister assured Kenyans Nasa will concede defeat if they lose in a free and fair election. He said they will have agents in all polling stations to guard against vote rigging. “Mara hii mjinga ameerevuka. Hii itakuwa mechi kali. Wakenya wamechoka na serikali ya Jubilee (This time round we are wiser and the game will be tougher. Kenyans are tired with the Jubilee government), Mr Odinga said in Kiswahili and added: “Even if elected for 100 years, they will not achieve anything.” 'RESTRUCTURE DEPARTMENTS' Nasa will restructure all government departments and ensure State employees are paid well to avert rampant strikes, he said. Bungoma Senator Wetang’ula said the Jubilee duo could not point out anything they had done for the region, saying Government positions are held only by two communities: “Wao wanakula nyama huku maelfu ya Wakenya wakimeza mate (They eat meat as the rest of the Kenyans salivate).” Siaya Senator James Orengo said Jubilee had not fulfilled its 2013 pre-election pledges. “A government that is unable to feed its people is a failed government,” said Mr Orengo. RUTO'S CLAIM Mr Mudavadi dismissed the DP’s claim that Nasa principals were in government for many years but did nothing. Said the former Vice-President: “They were also in power. Ruto was a minister in Kibaki’s government but what did he do? “He was fired due to corruption and incompetence. This time he will not be fired by his boss but voted out by the Kenyan people.” He dismissed Luhya leaders in Jubilee, among them Eugene Wamalwa and Ababu Namwamba, as self-seekers. Former Vice-President Musyoka said all Jubilee strongholds were solidly behind Nasa, adding: “This government has totally failed to address the plight of the common mwananchi. Surely, how can you sell government-branded maize flour?” The team made stopovers at Kiminini, Sibanga, Kwanza and Endebbes before heading to Kitale Stadium for a big rally.   Alliance points out agency's failure to fulfil legal requirements regarding testing of equipment.