Writer Anyiko Owoko raised concerns concerning the quality of the composition of Kenyan music. She raises a very important question because music, songs, and composition cannot be reduced to individual pursuits of an artiste. Music as a cultural expression forms part of a national identity. The quality of Kenyan music affects us as a nation. This is because every song is a cultural ambassador. A song speaks much about a nation and its people because each artiste is a product of his or her society. We can, therefore, not totally blame poor quality on Kenyan artistes. Some radio stations do not play local music at all, as Owoko observed, arguably because there are no local songs that meet their standards. To borrow Chinua Achebe’s words, it is the responsibility of the players in the music industry, especially artistes, music producers and sound engineers to trace where the rain started to beat us. My thesis for my Master of Arts in Literature at the University of Nairobi was on the songs of John De Mathew, a Kikuyu popular artiste. And for a PhD, I have done my research on Bongo Flava, majorly on songs by Diamond Platnumz and Marlaw. My driving force has been the literary wealth in the songs of these artistes. We can, therefore, not generalise that all Kenyan music is poorly composed. Back in the 1970’s and 80’s, we had Kenyan artistes like Kelly Brown whose music hits, like 'Higher', hit the world charts. Our problem is not quality. The difference comes when our local music is examined against its own standards, versus when it is rated against international music. DEFINING CONTEXT My desire to do a PhD on Bongo Flava was inspired by its poetic message, the quality of composition, and manner of rendition. I also know local artistes who are producing good music that has attracted attention locally and internationally, including Redsan and Nyashinski. Radio stations and fans do not judge a song on where it is produced. Music appreciation is very subjective. In this globalisation era, international artistes will beat Kenyan musicians not because they are favoured by radio stations but because fans will always go for the best. Owoko’s concerns when she talked of offering constructive criticism veers away from blaming local radio and fans for failing to appreciate Kenyan music to the same extent they show for songs from other countries. I’m sure most local artistes would like answers on how to improve the quality of their songs. Having taught creative writing prose and poetry for 17 years, and for the last 10 years at university level, I would say most of Kenyan music is poorly composed. This is because the current generation of artistes have not acquired and mastered the simple skills that would make a song an international hit. Local artistes need to make time to work with professionals in their song making. In addition, they need to acquire professional skills in song writing, song composition, arrangement, production and engineering skills. Most local artistes prefer the shortcuts of computer pre-programmed sounds that were created with European music as a defining context. Blending these musical sounds with local messages is a challenge and the end product is dismal. Any serious musician should work closely with a music producer who can actualise the artistic and semantic intentions of a song. The process of composition involves much more than what most local artistes consider nowadays. The two main ingredients of making a hit song are a killing tune and a killing message. Local sound engineers never give every song the attention it requires at production level. What most of them do is to fit each song within particular sound production presets that one has worked with over time. This should never be the case. No two songs are the same. The sound engineers exploit the fact that most artistes are ignorant of studio work. As a result, the engineer does some shoddy work and the artiste cannot complain. Sound engineers in other countries strive to make high quality hit songs. Our engineers lack the right equipment and they have not learnt and mastered their trade. My take is that even the studio that does a hit song achieves this by accident. This can be proven by the many one hit wonders among us. When the producer and engineer fail to repeat the success of an artist’s song, then we can conclude that the first success was due to guess work. INVEST RESOURCES To ensure that local artistes succeed, they should avoid working alone on the assumption that “it is my song” and exploit the spirit of team work and professionalism. International hit songs captures global attention because they addresses with brilliance and artistic acumen several aspects of the human conscience. These include artistic creativity, message, production quality, physiological and psychological effect where the voice of the artiste and the instruments capture listeners’ attention. To mitigate the local musicians’ predicament, the artistes and the sound engineers need to invest their time and resources in research. What ails the local music industry is not lack of talent but lack of skills at song writing, composition, and production levels. The government in addition need to reduce tax on musical instruments. Local studios lack the right equipment because of prohibitive costs that force studios to rely on poor quality tools. The Tanzanian music industry has gained a lot from the government’s commitment in promotion of music and Kiswahili as part of their national cultural identity. In Kenya, artistes are left to struggle on their own. With the inclusion of cultural rights in Article 4 of the Constitution, artistes and players in the music industry should take advantage to bargain for a better working environment from the government. The Cultural Bill will be another milestone which local artistes should focus on to negotiate for better music policies. Musicians are national emblems, they represent Kenya locally and internationally. The quality of their music should not be left to them. It belongs to us as a nation.  