Although very few women have written their autobiographies or have had biographies written about them, the steady increase in life-writing literature in Kenya should be lauded since it enriches our understanding of our national history.Self-narration (autobiography/life writings) and other-narration (biography) also offer a rich range of perspectives, theoretical and methodological approaches that make their reading such an intellectually exhilarating undertaking. These different viewpoints help raise the following important questions: How should a life-narration be written? Why should the subject s interpretation(s) of events (especially if they are controversial) be trusted as being definitive? For whom is the book intended?The first question touches on the question of content identity, the second hinges on the question of personal authenticity while the third addresses the question of access and sustainability.On the question of self-narration, H l ne Cixous, a French writer and theorist, argues that true autobiography does not exist as there is no such thing as a pure I identical to I-self . In other words, there is increasing differentiation and integration between I and Me which impact on self-disclosure, reflection and critique. That is why she cautions that To tell the truth, we have to trap the appearances with quotation marks. We are not what we are said to be. Thus, fabricating the truth by constructing a larger-than-life figure kills the interest in a story since readers are not easily taken in by such publicity slants. So far, prominent retired politicians have either penned their own memoirs or others have their stories written for them. While some of these life-stories are insightful in many ways, they often leave one with a terrible feeling of being intellectually duped.If the goal of a good life narration is to not only tell the adventure, but also the whole story behind the adventure, then there are many autobiographies of leading figures that do not quite meet that threshold.AUTHENTIC STORY TELLINGOthers makes little attempt to explain fully the struggle for political power and how this shaped both the local and national politics.But can autobiographical truth be fixed? In Reading Autobiography: A Guide for Interpreting Life Narratives, authors Sidonie Smith and Julia Watson propose that how people remember, what they remember and who does the remembering are historically specific. This perspective fits well with the Personal Construct Theory that was first proposed by George Kelly in 1955 and which holds that what the individual perceives may not exist, but his perception does, and for an individual, his perception is real.It is for this reason that autobiographies should not be taken to form indisputable authorities, but rather should be seen to be what they really are; one person s version of truth, a truth that can be distorted by memory and the telling of it!This leads us to enquire what the role of authenticity in telling a life-story is. Many a keen biographer is confronted with the trouble of differentiating what they think to be true and what they are told by their subjects is the truth.This is especially the case of controversial public figures who have assumed many roles and different faces during their long public service careers. When a controversial matter presents itself during the writing phase, whose version of truth do you trust? The teller of the story or the challenger(s) of his version of events? In my writing experience, I have had occasion of asking the subject to either authenticate his claims or withdraw them entirely.In biographical writing, care should be taken to understand what George Kelly calls Construct Systems, which tend to influence subject expectations and perceptions because they represent their truth as they (the subject) understand and experience it. This makes them idiosyncratic. In order to attain to authentic writing status, there is need to operate with the assumption that all present interpretations by the subject of their universe are subject to revision or replacement, which can result in an accurate perception of things.Put another way, writers of life stories should be ready to explore not only alternative views of the subject s narratives, but they should also be willing to imagine that the bad alternative view their clients excoriate could actually be the truth! Indeed, the more controversial the person, the more controversies and interpretations they are likely to generate in their lifetime, which really calls for a delicate work of differentiating truth from untruths!In the end, history is better served by propagating truth and not mythologies which are a major drawback to gaining true knowledge of things. To whom is the life-narration addressed? In general, experienced writers do their homework well in advance by organising their stories with the target audience in mind. In general, life-stories are slow moving products, unless they are about hugely controversial figures or contents and are written accurately, clearly and with an elegance of language. In the end, many life-stories are read mainly by serious readers keen on societal change.In the main, however, life-stories are really about a selfless service to history and posterity and should be understood as a desire by writers to infuse into the general society, newer meanings and values which they hope could help transform it for the better! The writer is a seasoned author of biographies, his latest being A lawyer for our Times: Biography of Dr Fackson W Kagwe. [email&#160;protected] email print email print Biographical writing in Kenya can be challenging.