Hello Kitoto, I’m 21-year-old single mother of a daughter, working and studying at the same time. When I was in primary school, I wanted to become a nun because in those days I believed that all men were dogs. But when I joined Form One, I got into a relationship and fell deeply in love with a man who was nine years my senior. He was also my first love and I loved him with my everything. He was easy to talk to, sometimes encouraged me, and even protected me from bad things. However, we broke up sometime after I finished secondary school. Years have passed but I still miss him dearly. I’m in a relationship but I still don’t feel content. I just can’t forget him. We meet occasionally due to unavoidable circumstances but we don’t talk. But anytime he is around me I  get butterflies in my stomach. What should I do? It’s destroying my current relationship. Please help.  Hi, Dating and being intimate with this man in high school was pretty premature.  Women take longer than men to get over a relationship, especially if intimacy was involved. Sex has a way of bonding you to a person since all  your emotions are tied to that relationship. Part of your life seems to be left with them. Some people feel an emptiness while others feel ashamed, angry, and vulnerable. Your feelings of anxiety are all about the memories of what you had together. I am not sure why you separated. However, with time and a child in the mix, things seem to have changed a great deal. If the child is his, then how come he is not involved? And if she is not his, then having a child with another man definitely changes things. I would suggest that you build on what you have now. It could just be your best bet. The way you condition your mind is key to a healthy you. Consciously determine that  the  future you want is not in other people but in the choices you make. Finally, since you have no idea what this man is up to, you can only speculate. However, speculation could be very far from the truth. After your break-up, he moved on with his life. My feeling is that you need to move with caution. Your whole future depends on it.  