President Uhuru Kenyatta has pledged to compensate all Kenyans displaced by the 2008 election violence. Speaking during the second day of his campaign tour in Gusii region, the President, who gave cheques for Sh828 million to integrated IDPs,  also vowed that Kenyans will not kill each other over politics on his watch. The IDPs said they were grateful that the government had finally remembered them, but added that the compensation offered was not enough. There are 22,000 displaced families in the region, which means each of them will get less than Sh40,000. The IDPs  have been living in squalor for nearly a decade since they were evicted from their homes and businesses in the Rift Valley during the 2007/08 post-election violence. VIOLENCE ERUPTED The violence erupted following a disputed presidential election in which incumbent Mwai Kibaki was declared winner but challenger Raila Odinga disputed results. Some 1,133 people were killed and more than 600,000 displaced, according to official figures. Mr Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto were among six Kenyans who were charged at the International Criminal Court in The Hague, Netherlands, for crimes against humanity following the violence. The cases, however, collapsed. On Wednesday, Mr Kenyatta said the payments were the beginning of a plan to support integrated IDPs in all the 33 affected counties. But whereas many of the victims from central Kenya were compensated with Sh400,000 and land, those in other regions, including Nyanza and Western are yet to receive any payment. MAJOR CAMPAIGN ISSUE This has become a major campaign issue, with the Jubilee administration facing charges of discrimination. But Mr Kenyatta said: “Our first priority was to resettle those who lived in IDP camps and we have succeeded in that. What we have started now is meant to bring to a close the issue of integrated IDPs in 33 counties including Meru, Nyandarua, Vihiga, Kakamega, Kisumu and Migori.” READ: IDPs in Kisii get Sh358m compensation He spoke at Ekerenyo in Nyamira. On wednesday, the Gusii IDP Integrated Network chairman Alfred Akama said many had died of depression after suffering losses. Mr Akama said the gesture by the President was a major step forward in helping to end their suffering. But he said the amount was too little. IDPS HAVE DIED “At least the President has shown that his heart had been with us all along even as we waited. The amount given, however, appears insignificant compared to the number of people who are lined up to benefit,” he told the Nation by phone. “In Kitutu Chache North’s Marani area, at least six IDPs have died in the past three months,” he said. He vowed to press for more funds. “We had expected at least Sh6 billion, which was promised to us and not the Sh830 million the President announced,” said Mr Akama. “We have truly been patient even as other groups from other parts were resettled a long time ago. We have suffered enough already,” he said. TRAUMATISING EPISODES Some of those affected by the violence recalled traumatising episodes culminating in their displacement. Ms Peninah Momanyi’s husband was killed during the violence. She lost her house and other investments. As if that was not enough, her two sons went missing for years only to resurface in January from Tanzania, ‘I lost everything and I have nightmares every time I recall that day.” For her part, Ms Dorca Nyarinda said warriors raided and beheaded her husband in Nandi Hills as he slept.  Reports by Magati Obebo, Ruth Mbula and Silas Apolo  