The Confederation of African Football (Caf) has hinted at withdrawing Kenya's hosting rights for next year's African Nations Championship (Chan) tournament. Speaking during a press conference on Saturday at the Moi International Sports Centre, Kasarani, Caf's second vice president Constant Omari, who is leading a team of high ranking officials on a tour to inspect the country's preparedness, explained that it always is a "safe" measure for Caf to seek options for any project it undertakes. "We have a plan B in place," Omari, who is also the Democratic Republic of Congo Football Association president, warned. "It is a normal strategy. In case of problems, Caf is always ready to take this competition elsewhere.” Omari's sentiments come amid credible reports suggesting the continental body chiefs are far from being impressed by Kenya's preps to host this biannual continental football event. Up until this point some six months to the start of the competition, none of the five stadiums earmarked to host the games meet the minimum required security and logistical specifications set aside by the tournament organisers. "Kasarani (Nairobi) and Kinoru (Meru) stadiums have done well although they are not ready. That said, we got serious issues with the Kenyatta (Machakos), Nyayo (Nairobi) and Kip-Keino (Eldoret) Stadiums," Football Kenya Federation president Nick Mwendwa said. "That said, our only issue is the stadiums, Caf has no issue with our hotels, transport and manpower." At the briefing, Sports Cabinet Secretary Hassan Wario admitted the government had delayed in committing funds to renovate the stadium owing to logistical reasons. "Kenya really wants to host this tournament because football is loved by Kenyans. What we are awaiting is our financial year budgets which should be in place by next month. If you (Caf) come back by November, then you will find us almost ready," said Wario.   Kenya's last minute withdrawal could open the way for Morocco and Cote d'Ivoire to host the tournament, with the nations having already declared interest. Should Kenya be stripped off these hosting rights, the country could face serious sanctions, including a hefty fine and ban from competing in the competition for up to four years. This would however not be the first time Kenya is committing to host a continental event, and then backing off at the eleventh hour. The last time a similar incident occurred was in 1996, when the hosting rights for the Africa Cup of Nations were instead handed to South Africa.  