A few weeks ago, a tearful Valerie stumbled from Tom Mboya Street into her office building. Out in the street, a man had tried to chat her up and when she wasn’t receptive to his advances, he’d grabbed her by the shoulders and roughly pinned her against him. Despite it being noon and the streets full, no one bothered to find out what was going on. So she fought and when she managed to slip away from his grasp, she ran in the direction of her office. In the lift lobby, she met a male colleague who wanted to know why she was running. When she told him, he laughed. “There is nothing like sexual harassment. Women only say they have been harassed when the attention is coming from an unattractive man. I am sure that if that man was attractive, you wouldn’t be complaining. All women like attention from men. Every woman likes to be told she is beautiful,” he told her. “His response got me even more upset than that creep who had attacked me,” she says. She felt like he was trying to devalue her experience of being a woman. This is a classic example of instances where women, the world over, are mansplained to every day. According to the Merriam-Webster dictionary, mansplaining occurs when a man talks condescendingly to someone (especially a woman) about something he has incomplete knowledge of, with the mistaken assumption he knows more about it than the person he’s talking to does. Women are on the receiving end of it from their brothers, husbands, colleagues and even total strangers online who imagine they know better what it is like to be a woman on a daily basis. Even powerful women are not spared. We all saw Donald Trump interrupt and go on to lecture Hillary Clinton on issues touching on fields that she has spent her whole adult life in. Mansplaining is a gender issue. Unfortunately, unlike other forms of gender based discrimination and harassment, mansplaining is subtle – so much so that a victim might fail to recognise it. Or she might recognise it but imagine that she is overreacting. It is not a new concept: For the longest time, men have been rewarded for speaking out while women are quietened and labelled unflattering names when they fail to conform. In 1973, a group of researchers from the University of California in the US studied this phenomenon. They found that in 11 conversations between a man and a woman happening in a public place, there were 48 interruptions. 46 of these came from men. Another 2014 study by researchers from The George Washington University confirms that women are indeed more likely to be interrupted and forced to listen to someone explain that which they already know, more than men. “Most of it is subconscious. Most of the time, he will think that he is helping,” says Bella Mutie, 31. She remembers one time when she and her husband were newly married and he found her tracking her menstrual cycle on her phone. “He asked me very incredulously why I was wasting all that time when I could just wait for the end of the month for my period,” she recalls. When Ciiru a 29-year-old Nairobi business women went to deliver her daughter at the beginning of the year, her husband made sure to sit her down and tell her that she needed to wear a dress so that the doctor would have easy access to her birth canal. He was very incessant about it, insisting that she removes the maternity pants she wore. “I had to school him.” When it happens in a social setting, mansplaining is annoying and belittling. When it happens at work on the other hand, the effects are more direct with a stronger effect on a woman’s self-belief. 29-year-old Miriam is a mechanic in a motor vehicle garage in Industrial Area. She has been working here for five years. Still, she has male clients and sometimes colleagues assuming that she must not know what she is talking about. “Someone will interrupt me and go on to rephrase the exact thing I wanted to say, or even say the wrong thing,” she says. “I feel very belittled. I don’t know why people feel the need to speak for me when I can perfectly speak for myself. This is my job, I understand it.” Most of the times, she will just let it go. Television is a true mirror of the society. A 2016 analysis of television dialogues by gender conducted by The Pudding, an American website, unearthed very interesting findings: Men get more lines in television and movies. Jungle Book, a popular Disney film, has 98 per cent male dialogue. Interestingly, Sleeping Beauty, a film which has a female lead, has only 30 per cent female dialogue. This findings were found to be consistent across all genres. This just goes to show that a woman’s strongest weapon against mansplaining is her voice. In a social setting, you can simply tell the person trying to explain your body to you that you already know what they are trying to tell you or even question their expertise on the same. Professional settings on the other hand, require a little bit of tact. A good place to start would be to remember that it isn’t enough that you were invited to the table. You also need to be heard. Jane, a 36-year-old accountant in a small accounting firm in Westlands area of Nairobi is no stranger to mansplaining at work. Over the years, she has come up with tactics to deal with it. “If a man interrupts me during a meeting to explain what I am already saying because they feel like they can do it better, I simply tell them to let me finish,” she says. Or she ignores the interrupter, nods at him and continues making her point. A 2016 study by researchers from Potsdam University in Germany showed that women in the work place are more successful when they ask for things on behalf of other people and not for themselves directly. Knowing this, then you are more likely to stop a mansplainer by asking to be heard for the benefit of all the others present. For instance, you can say, “Let’s not drift from the point or this meeting will take up too much time for everyone.” Or “I am sure that everyone here is pressed for time, please let’s stick to the point I was making.” Most important, women should stop apologising for speaking their minds, or self-censoring while speaking. This way, those around you will start taking what you say seriously and that urge to speak over you or to explain what you already said will reduce if not die altogether. MANSPLAINING AROUND THE WORLD While hosting her on a late night live television interview, Jimmy Kimmel, an American television show host, mansplained to the then presidential candidate Hillary Clinton. Kimmel started by giving Hillary advice on how best to present herself despite the fact that she obviously was more experienced in that field. After explaining to her what the term mansplaining means, he went on to tell her that “it is a way that men can make women better.” Steve Harvey, an American media personality, indulged in one long mansplaining treatise in his book Think Like a Man, Act Like a Lady, which subsequently was turned into a movie. The book details all the things that women should do to get the man of their dreams… despite the fact that Harvey is not a man. In 2014, Don Lemon, a CNN journalist, sparked outrage when he asked one of Bill Cosby’s sexual assault victims why she didn’t just bite off his penis to stop her rape. “You know, there are many ways not to perform oral sex if you didn’t want to do it,” he told her and with that, he trivialised her whole ordeal. In 2012, Tod Akin, a former American congressman, stunned when he said during a television interview that rape does not justify abortion because rape can’t result in pregnancy. He went on to explain that he knows that after a rape, the female body has a way of shutting down its reproductive system. He claimed to have gotten this understanding from doctors. His comments were found to be offensive by most. Singer and actor Tyrese Gibson likes to give women advice on social media about how they ought to be living their lives. He seems to have endless advice on what black women should or should not do. Often, he calls out women for wearing weaves, fake eyelashes or body parts.    