About 470 pupils from across the country gathering at Nairobi Primary School have elected their National government, supervised by Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC). The children elected their 10 national leaders among them the Chair, deputy chair, speaker, deputy speaker and secretaries for various departments. The children were taken through various elections in their respective schools, sub-county and county levels and produced 10 county elective representatives. They arrived in Nairobi on Monday to attend the fourth Annual National Children’s government congress. In the conference, which ends on Friday, the children are being taken through the roles of the elected leaders. CHILDREN’S RIGHTS They also participated in a child-centred design workshop to understand and redefine the concept of child-friendly schools by providing actionable steps to making schools more inclusive, protective, healthy, and equitable for all. The workshop engaged the children on key issues affecting them in their schools and facilitators helped them identify their roles as leaders in advocating for children’s rights. Through the workshop, the children discussed key issues around the theme: “Accelerating protection Empowerment and Equal Opportunities for Children in Kenya by 2030.” The nominees for the 2017 National Children’s Government were also given an opportunity to campaign for the 10 positions. Each of the candidates were allocated time to make their case and explain how they plan to champion for the rights of children all over Kenya. ELECTED LEADERS The International Foundation for Electoral Systems (IFES) representative Paul Anderson said the purpose of taking the children through the process was to help them showcase their ability to express their vision for Kenya. “They are also being taught on how to contact a free and fair electronic voting process,” he said. The newly elected leaders will be celebrated on Friday in a ceremony that will be attended by education Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i. The newly elected leaders will be sworn in to office and last year’s leaders will hand over the mantle to them. During the celebrations, each leader will be given an opportunity to make their key address to the audience, highlighting what they would like to achieve during their term and the support they require. YOUNG LEADERS The Speaker of the Children’s Government will then present the ten Resolutions and Priorities for Quality Education and advancing child rights in Kenya. The Key Speakers will respond to the children’s resolutions in their remarks addressing the government, development partners and public role in supporting young leaders. Other leaders expected to attend the celebrations are Principal Secretary for Education Belio Kipsang, Canadian High Commissioner Sara Hradecky, UNICEF Kenya representative Werner Schultink, and representatives from the Teachers Service Commission (TSC).   The site will become a campus of the proposed Koitalel Samoei University College in Nandi County.