Machakos gubernatorial candidate Wavinya Ndeti was allowed to go ahead with her campaigns for the seat on a Wiper ticket. Even though the nightmare on whether her name will be in the ballot still lingers, High Court Judge George Odunga ruled that it will be unfair to lock her out of the campaigns while her opponents are doing so in the event she wins the case challenging the verdict that barred her from participating in the race. VERDICT SUSPENDEDIn his ruling, Justice Odunga also said that nothing can stop the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission from degazetting her name from the list of candidates participating in the August 8 polls in the event she loses the case. The judge consequently suspended the June 8 verdict by the IEBC’s disputes commission that had stopped Ms Ndeti from participating in the Machakos gubernatorial race on grounds that she belongs to two political parties. “In the interest of the public and parties before me in this case, there will be a stay on the implementation of the decision of IEBC pending the hearing and determination of this matter,” Justice Odunga ruled. IEBC SUEDHe added: “For avoidance of doubt the commission is directed that when publishing names of candidates, they ought to include hers.” The Wiper’s nominee for the Machakos gubernatorial seat had earlier in the day moved to the High Court to challenge the electoral agency’s decision. Through lawyer Willis Otieno, she sued the IEBC. Wiper party, the Registrar of Political parties, the Political Parties Dispute tribunal and Kyalo Peter Kyuli are listed as interested parties in the case. Ms Ndeti argued that the commission’s verdict is erroneous as it violates the right of the people of Machakos to freely elect a governor of their choice. FUNDRAISERMr Otieno told the court that the decision bars her from following her campaign schedule and that it even caused her to miss out a fundraising event on Thursday meant to boost her campaigns. He also claimed that the registrar is aware that she was vying on a Wiper ticket and was not considered to confirm which party she belongs to at the time the disputed decision was made. “In politics, one hour is a lifetime, she can never recover, public interest is a real ground herein and I urge this court to consider this as a basis,” the lawyer argued. CCU DISSOLVEDIn the case documents, she said she resigned from her former party, Chama Cha Uzalendo, on April 5 and joined Wiper. She also alleged that both parties entered into a coalition agreement when the dispute of her being in two parties arose before the Political Parties Dispute tribunal. She insisted that she is now a registered Wiper party member hence the verdict by the IEBC committee was unfair and has a huge implication on her political career. She further alleged that there are records that indicate which party she currently belongs to and is seeking to be elected. Justice Odunga directed that copies of the suit be given to the IEBC for a hearing on June 14. Ms Ndeti wants the court to permanently quash the IEBC verdict.   Ndeti blames Muthama, Mutua, Kiala and Wamunyu MCA Kyuli for her troubles.