Slain Mumias Sugar Company Legal Affairs Manager Ronald Lubya did not die as a result of gunshot wounds, a preliminary autopsy report has revealed. A post-mortem carried out on Mr Lubya’s body at Avenue Hospital in Kisumu on Tuesday revealed that he was hit several times by a blunt object on the head, breaking his skull. MOBILES The autopsy was conducted by the regional government pathologist, Dr Solomon Sava, and witnessed by the family’s doctor, Mr Lubya’s relatives and the police. Dr Sava said the final report on the death would be presented to the family on Wednesday. “We shall avail the report to the family. For now, you may get the details from them,” he said. Mumias Sub-County criminal investigation officer Robert Mureithi later confirmed that Mr Lubya died of injuries inflicted by blunt objects. Mr Mureithi further revealed that mobile phones purported to have been stolen from the deceased had been found in his house. WORKMATE He said family members recovered the two phones while arranging the house on Monday evening. The officer said police were investigating claims that Mr Lubya had been threatened by a workmate at Mumias. “We are probing a Mumias Sugar Company employee who is accused to have threatened the late Lubya. We are however not treating him as the main suspect,” said Mr Mureithi. Mr Mureithi said the family had reported that the late Lubya had complained of being trailed by an unknown person. Meanwhile, the Law Society of Kenya has petitioned Inspector-General of Police Joseph Boinnet to fast-track investigations into the murder and prosecute the perpetrators. PETITION “There can be no greater threat to the rule of law in this country when both advocates and members of their families are placed in mortal and personal danger simply on account of the lawful performance of work undertaken in the delivery of legal services,” reads the LSK petition. “We are shocked and gravely saddened by the news of the heinous and brutal murder in cold blood of the late Lubya, at his home in Matungu, Kakamega last night.” The lawyers’ body adds: “It is most alarming coincidence that  this incident has occurred less than a year after  the murder of yet another one of our members, the late Willie Kimani who was abducted after attending  court.’ Additional reporting by Shaban Makokha.   MPs claim Ronald Lubya was being coerced by some people to sign for illegal sugar.