More than 152,000 teachers in lower cadres will be the major beneficiaries of a Sh54 billion salary increase deal that was signed last year after the government agreed to implement it in two phases. This is after their employer, the Teachers Service Commission, on Thursday evening convinced the government to have the raise implemented in two phases for teachers in job groups H and J starting July 1. Sources privy to the discussions told the Nation that teachers in the upper cadre, which are mostly administrative, will have the increase implemented in four phases. The deal overhauls the current grading system and caps the overall salary of the highest-paid teacher at Sh157,656 and the lowest-paid at 21,756. On Friday, the TSC will hold a crucial meeting with Kenya National Union of Teachers and Kenya Union of Post Primary Education Teachers leadership to look at the final implementation report of the collective bargaining agreement that will run until June 30, 2021. POSITION ABOLISHED The agreement also abolished the P1 teacher position, which was Job Group G, and those in the grade will move to H, which will be known as B5. In the current structure, the lowest-paid of the 305,000 teachers in the country gets between Sh16,672 and Sh21,304. Those in the next level are paid Sh19,323 to Sh26,442 while the highest-paid earns between Sh109,089 and Sh144,928. From July 1, a teacher in grade B5 (former Job Group H) will earn between Sh21,756 and Sh27,195 and C1 (Group J) Sh27,195 to Sh33,994. On Thursday, Knut leaders maintained that the implementation plan must be one that will benefit their members. Kuppet chairman Omboko Milemba said the union was ready for the talks and hoped that teachers will enjoy the benefits from July. 'SHORTER TIME' “It is our expectation that the implementation will be in a shorter time for better benefits,” said Mr Milemba. Knut secretary-general Wilson Sossion assured teachers that a deal will be reached and made public. “The implementation schedule is flexible and can be renegotiated from time to time in the best interests of teachers within the four-year period by both parties,” said Mr Sossion. It is understood that TSC has, for the past two weeks, led by its chief executive officer Nancy Macharia, been lobbying The National Treasury to allocate resources for a two-phase implementation. It was argued that teachers had shown a lot of goodwill in promoting industrial harmony and were actively involved in reform programmes in the education sector and a two-phase implementation would help to sustain the momentum. THE PROGRAMMES Some of the programmes include performance contradicting for headteachers and teachers’ performance appraisal. Teachers will also have to do extra work as promotion will be based on their performance at the workplace. The worth of every job will be determined based on the category and size of school, level of responsibility and the impact of decisions made at every level. The CBA also expanded the grading structure of the top cadre of teachers, majority of whom are school administrators in post-primary institutions. The new structure has grades B5, C1, C2, C3, C4, C5, D1, D2, D3, D4 and D5. Previously, teachers were graded in Job Group G, H, J, K, L, M, N, P, Q and R. Primary and post-primary teachers in non-administrative positions will move from Grade B5 (former Job Group H) to D1 (formerly P). Primary school administrators will be appointed substantively and placed in grade C2 (formerly K) to D1 (formerly P). The entry grade for post-primary institution administrators, who comprise 25 per cent of the category, will be at D1 and can progress to D5.  