Oceans are the lifeblood of our planet. They give us food and mitigate climate change. The oxygen in every second breath we take is generated by the oceans. But our oceans are in a critical condition and we will soon find more plastic than fish outside our coasts if we don’t reverse the current trend. The UN Ocean Conference being held in New York from June 5 to 9 provides us with the opportunity to turn this around. INCOME AND NUTRITION The oceans cover almost three quarters of the earth’s surface and contain 97 per cent of its water. More than 3.5 billion people depend on the oceans for their income and nutrition, not least in the developing countries. The oceans are home to almost 200,000 identified species, although the actual figures are thought to be in the millions. Oceans are also important for trade and tourism. The oceans have long been our best friend in the battle against climate change by absorbing the carbon dioxide and heat that humans have released into the atmosphere. OVERFISHING Unfortunately the world’s oceans are in a critical condition due to overfishing, litter and acidification. Excessive fishing means that the most resilient species take over, which can lead to, for example, jellyfish invasions and even more pressure on the edible fish stocks. Human activity is responsible for this state of affairs, and only human activity can turn this around. The ban on plastic bags suggested by the Kenya Government is a good example of the critical actions needed. The plastics wasted on land eventually end up in the ocean and at this rate there will soon be more plastic than fish in the oceans. The plastic is ground down to micro particles, eaten by fish and lands on our plates. POVERTY REDUCTION The sustainable marine goal is central to the entire UN development agenda and is closely linked to other goals, such as poverty reduction, food security, climate action, sustainable production and consumption, and a secure supply of clean water. That is why Sweden and Fiji jointly took the initiative to organise the UN Ocean Conference. Committed efforts are essential to save the oceans and achieve the UN Sustainable Development Goal on oceans, seas and marine resources. The conference has ambitious goals and will result in a joint ‘Call for Action’ to advance efforts towards a sustainable ocean. PARTNERSHIP DIALOGUES Another important aspect is the partnership dialogues taking place during the conference where business, civil society, politicians and academia contribute to innovative solutions to solve major common challenges. Kenya has an important role as a co-convenor for one of these dialogues. A significant outcome of the conference will be the voluntary commitments made by the member states, civil society and the private sector to the implementation of the ocean-related Sustainable Development Goal. IMPLEMENTED The current negative trends for the oceans have to be reversed. Time is running out. Agreements are already in place, and now they must be implemented. The ongoing Ocean Conference in New York aims to ensure that we move from words to deeds. A clean and living ocean is a prerequisite for the survival of us all. Mr Borgstam, is the ambassador of Sweden to Kenya and permanent representative to UN Environment and Mr Solheim, the executive director of UN Environment  