Two candidates in the Lamu governorship race have denied claims by Governor Issa Timamy that they are political projects set up to divide his votes in the August elections. Addressing supporters at different events as they intensified their campaigns, Wiper candidate Swaleh Imu and ODM’s Abdalla Fadhil denied Mr Timamy’s claims, insisting that they are no one’s project. Mr Imu rubbished Mr Timamy’s claims terming them lies and instead called on him to stop bringing his reputation to disrepute. He said he is determined to clinch the Lamu governor’s seat in order to save the residents from poor leadership. Mr Imu said Lamu has many challenges that need quick fixing and that his objective is to repair the damage that Mr Timamy’s administration has caused on Lamu people. LIARS “Those claiming that I am Fahim Twaha’s project are liars. No one can afford me. I can’t sell my democratic right for any price. I have been in politics before they even thought of joining. “I have severally stood against Fahim. How can I work for him now? Why would I even waste my time being used by a fellow man? Those are lies. I don’t know where the governor got that from but he should know that I will beat him at the ballot no matter how much propaganda he comes up with,” said Mr Imu. On his side, ODM’s Abdalla Fadhil said his decision to contest for Lamu governor was driven by poor and dictatorial leadership he had witnessed for the past four years that Timamy has been in power. He said his key objective is to give the people of Lamu a taste of good leadership. QUALITY LEADERSHIP “Those claiming that I am a project, then they should understand that my only project is to clinch the Lamu gubernatorial seat from the incumbent so that Lamu people can enjoy quality leadership. I am not anybody’s project,” said Mr Fadhil. But addressing his supporters at the Mkunguni Square in Lamu Town shortly after he was cleared by IEBC, Mr Timamy stood his ground and insisted that he was aware of the political projects out to destroy him but swore that he will come out unscathed. He said he is ready to face all his opponents even if elections are held today and urged locals to vote him back to office so that he can finish off what he began. “Each one has the right to contest but they must know that I am not afraid of all the dirty tricks they are applying. Imu and Fadhil are not after the seat but are only being used to divide votes. Let me tell you that, Fahimu, Imu and Fadhil, even if you come together to compete with me I won’t be deterred. I will win fair and square,” said Mr Timamy.  