The National Super Alliance (Nasa) embarks on a campaign rally in Vihiga County today, with independent candidates warning presidential candidate Raila Odinga against endorsing people. The coalition hopes to secure the region's more than 200,000 votes. Split into two groups, the Nasa team will begin by holding a series of roadshows in the five constituencies of Emuhaya, Luanda, Vihiga, Hamisi and Sabatia. Mr Odinga, his running mate Kalonzo Musyoka and the other principals: Mr Musalia Mudavadi (ANC), Mr Moses Wetang'ula (Ford Kenya) and Bomet Governor Isaac Ruto (CCM) will lead the teams. CONFLICT OVER VENUEAccording to the itinerary seen by the Nation, the first group will start it's roadshow at Ekwanda, in Luanda constituency, at 10am. The second team will start its roadshow at Shamakhokho in Hamisi constituency. They will then converge at Municipal Grounds in Mbale for a major rally. Initially, there was confusion on the venue for the main rally with a section of leaders suggesting it should be held at Hamisi stadium while the other wanted Moses Budamba Mudavadi Memorial Grounds to host it. FINAL DECISIONMPs Alfred Agoi (Sabatia) and Mr Yusuf Chanzu (Vihiga) assessed other venues and settled on Municipal Grounds. "We have been holding our rallies at Municipal Grounds for long. This is where we will hold our rally. "If there is any other venue that is being prepared by anyone, then that is a Jubilee meeting because I heard that the president (Uhuru Kenyatta) will be visiting the county," Mr Chanzu said. ENDORSEMENTMr Chanzu, who is seeking the Vihiga governorship seat, cautioned Mr Odinga against endorsing any candidate. Similar sentiments were echoed by independent candidates from the county. "We are not fighting for space anywhere else. The presidency has been handed to ODM through consensus. "It therefore calls for ANC to be allowed to run for the other seats without undue competition here in Vihiga," he argued. READ: ANC risks fall-out in Vihiga as rivals dispute results of primaries There are fears that Mr Odinga might endorse Emuhaya MP Wilbur Ottichilo's candidacy for the top position; he is ODM party's candidate. STRENGTHThe independents are being led by Mr Victor Mwanga, the chairman, and they said they will attend the rally. "When Raila comes to Vihiga, let him campaign for the presidency. He should not endorse anyone. "We are more than 100, a sign of our strength. We support Raila's candidature and we will campaign for him," Mr Mwanga said during a press conference at a hotel in Mbale on Friday.   They have done nothing for you, Nasa tells Trans Nzoia residents as it trashes UhuRuto's tour of region.