Survivors of the 2007/2008 post-election violence in Uasin Gishu County have cautioned politicians against propagating hate speech during the ongoing campaigns ahead of the general elections. The survivors Wednesday converged at the Kenya Assemblies of God (KAG) Church in Kiambaa Village on the outskirts of Eldoret Town where 38 people were burnt to death on January 1, 2008. Led by their Chairman Joseph Githuku, the survivors, numbering about 200, warned against the revival of crimes against humanity cases at the International Criminal Court (ICC) saying this could ignite animosity against various communities in the country. “Most of the post-election violence victims are still in a healing process and attempts to revive the ICC cases will open old wounds and incite Kenyans to kill each other,” warned Mr Githuku while cautioning leaders against politicising the emotive land issue. READ: This is what poll violence did to us   INTEGRATED IDPS He appealed to the government to compensate integrated internally displaced people so as to empower them to engage in meaningful socio-economic activities to improve their lives. “Land remains an emotive matter and offering alternative settlement for the IDPs will empower them economically and promote peaceful coexistence,” said Mr Githuku. He lost his wife and child during the 2007/2008 post-election violence which claimed 1,333 lives and displacement of thousands of families across the country. MONITOR HATE SPEECH A team of security personnel and monitors have meanwhile been deployed to hotspot areas in the North Rift region to quell rising tensions and profile politicians propagating hate speech ahead of the general elections. The intelligence team is investigating politicians who engaged in hate speech during the party primaries with a view to taking legal action against them. “We are analysing all political speeches since the beginning of the year and the law will act tough against individuals who promote hate speech and acts of violence,” warned Abdi Hassan, Uasin Gishu County commissioner. However, he did not disclose the names of the politicians under investigation, noting that the probe is at an advanced stage. “The National Cohesion and Integration Commission monitors and the national police service are observing activities of some of these aspirants and the law will act tough against individuals who participate in acts of lawlessness,” added Mr Abdi. HOTSPOTS Among the hotspot areas in the region include Turbo, Kesses, Burnt Forest and Kerio Valley where a security operation is ongoing to flush out criminals who have been harassing residents. This comes as Rift Valley Regional Coordinator Wanyama Musiambu announced that the government had equipped police officers with sophisticated security gadgets to curb hate speech among politicians in the run-up to the August 8 elections. Mr Musiambu said that the gadgets will aid in evidence collection during political rallies and meetings convened by politicians across the country. “We want to tell everyone spewing hate speech and incitement among Kenyans that this time round the government will have enough and credible evidence [for] prosecuting them,” said Mr Musiambu. He said police officers will aid members of the NCIC in cracking down hate mongers in the country.   At least 35 people, most of them women and children, died on Tuesday in Eldoret in the most bizarre killing yet in the ongoing