Kiambu Governor William Kabogo has demanded that IEBC moves officers who were seconded to political parties during nominations, saying they are to blame for his loss in the Jubilee primaries. He was speaking Friday when he presented his nomination papers at Kiambu Institute of Science and Technology (Kist) where he was accompanied by hundreds of his supporters. Mr Kabogo said he was making the demand on behalf of all independent candidates. He said should the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission chairman Wafula Chebukati fail to heed their demands, they will lead a protest, and if need be, they will move to court. LOST TO WAITITU The governor, who lost the highly coveted Jubilee Party ticket to his bitter rival, Kabete MP Ferdinand Waititu, said IEBC officers who were seconded to political parties to oversee the nominations were partly to blame for his loss. “Mr IEBC chairman (Chebukati), those people whom you seconded to Jubilee to conduct nominations, please get them out of Kiambu. We don’t want them to oversee the (general) election. If that does not happen, we will demonstrate all over Kiambu and march to the IEBC offices,” said Mr Kabogo, who is the chairman independent candidates. GO TO COURT “All IEBC officers, whether permanent or temporary, who participated in Jubilee, ODM or any other party nominations should not to take part in the election…if IEBC will not hear us, we will go to court. We will not allow that to happen,” He added. Trouble begun when Mr Kabogo identified the county deputy elections manager Shadrack Githinji as having been among those who participated in Jubilee primaries. Mr Kabogo confronted the County Elections Manager Hellen Kahindi over the matter. But Ms Kahidi told the governor to make a formal which he submitted before he was cleared. Ms Kahindi promised that she will forward the same to the IEBC chairman. Mr Kabogo’s nomination sets the stage for another epic duel between him and Mr Waititu who was cleared on Thursday.  