The public health care system is at a crossroads once again. This time around, it is the nurses who have downed tools to protest delay in effecting new salaries. The more than 45,000 nurses are furious at the failure by the Council of Governors to implement a Collective Bargaining Agreement. FORMAL ADOPTION This adds to the continued crisis in the medical sector, where practitioners are constantly at loggerheads with the authorities over pay. The CBA is the result of long-drawn-out negotiations between the nurses’ union and the governors. In a sense, the agreement is a done deal and what is pending is formal adoption by the governors, registration in court and implementation. However, the governors have chosen to blame the Salaries and Remuneration Commission for allegedly failing to sanction the pact to pave the way for its implementation. But the commission has maintained a studious silence on the matter. HEALTH DEVOLUTIONIt is a crying shame that patients in public hospitals have to suffer because of failure to resolve what should be a straightforward matter. With the strike coming just two months after the one by doctors that went on for more than 100 days, it is a terrible indictment of the management of the public health care system. We have argued before, and we must repeat that the devolution of health management to the counties was ill-advised. CRITICAL ROLES The counties were never prepared to handle the job. We must critically think through the best model for public health care management. For now, the nurses’ grievances must be addressed. Nurses are the pillars of health care the world over, for they do the bulk of the work of caring for patients round the clock, keeping records, administering medicine and serving as doctors’ right hand people. LOSS OF LIVES It, therefore, beats reason why the matter cannot be resolved quickly. The country cannot afford a relentless crisis in the health sector. Governors must resolve the dispute so the nurses can resume work immediately. Significantly, whoever is found culpable for the mess must be made to pay for it. We cannot afford to lose lives because of official sloppiness.  