Deputy President William Ruto on Tuesday evening took Jubilee Party campaigns to Nairobi, where he accused the opposition of inciting Kenyans and opposing everything meant to benefit ordinary Kenyans. Mr Ruto, who addressed a rally in Embakasi, accused the National Super Alliance (Nasa) of breaking inter-communal bridges rather than building them. He took issue with Nasa presidential flagbearer Raila Odinga who last week, at a rally in Kajiado County, cautioned the local Maasai  against selling their land at throw-away prices. SELL LAND Mr Odinga argued that locals were being forced to sell land because of poverty and after being enticed by monied buyers, something he says he will correct should he become president. The Nasa leader has since defended his call for communities not to sell land out of poverty and fought off claims that his land talk amounted to incitement as alleged by Jubilee leaders among them National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale. READ: Keep off our land issues, Kajiado leaders tell Raila But on Tuesday, Mr Ruto tore into the opposition leader’s stand, declaring: “Every Kenyan who has legally bought land has every right to live where they are and we cannot accept politicians to divide or build walls among Kenyans. As Jubilee, we are building bridges among all Kenyans.” Mr Ruto declared that the matter reflected the difference between Jubilee party and Nasa. LIVE ANYWHERE “This country is our country. It is for every Kenyan and every community. And we want to be categorical that every Kenyan is going to live anywhere (they wish). “They must be ready. Because Kenyans will, on August 8, decide who their leaders will be,” the DP said, sustaining a fight he has held against the opposition leader for a while now. READ: Don’t touch Raila, Jubilee warned Addressing residents of Tassia, in Nairobi’s eastern side that has had water supply problems for ages, Mr Ruto pledged that they would get piped water. He also used the opportunity to criticise the opposition leader for opposing the Sh6.8 billion  Northern Water Collector Tunnel in Murang’a. TUNNEL PROJECT The tunnel, the government argues, is supposed to be used to funnel flood water from several rivers in the region and have the water pumped to the city. In October last year, Mr Odinga claimed the government was rerouting water away from communities in the Tana River basin, claims the government denied. Mr Ruto claimed those opposed to the tunnel project, whose water he said would benefit Tassia residents among others, were opposed to anything benefiting ordinary folk. “They have water in Karen.  They don’t experience the problem you have here,” he said. Mr Ruto was accompanied by  Senator Mike Sonko, Woman Rep Rachel Shebesh and nominated Senators Johnstone Sakaja and  Beatrice Elachi.  