President Uhuru Kenyatta has warned young people against being used by politicians to cause violence during campaigns ahead of the August 8 elections. He said the country should never again experience political violence which in 2007/2008 led to deaths and displacement of people and loss of property. Addressing residents of Nyamira County at Ikonge and Ekerenyo trading centres Tuesday, the head of State said it is of no use for young people to portray their might in political violence only to return to their homes in coffins. "It is useless for one to waste a lot of energy causing chaos in a show of political might. That energy should be directed to things that will build this country," he said. He said his administration will create more employment opportunities for millions of jobless youths in the country. He lashed out at the opposition for throwing insults at him despite the much respect he had for them. ABUSES "I do not care even if they abuse me. But such abuses may not augur well with youths who may react and cause chaos," he said. The President gave out a Sh470 million cheque to integrated IDPs in Nyamira. On Tuesday, he gave out Sh358 million to about 7000 IDPs from Kisii county. Each of the beneficiaries will get Sh50,000. Mr Kenyatta said the two counties are part of 33 counties in the country which will benefit with the integrated IDPs’ cash. "Nakuru, Nyandarua, Kisumu, Kakamega, and Eldoret are among counties which will benefit," he said. Mr Kenyatta pleaded with members of the Gusii community to support his re-election bid. "I know in the last elections we were not together, but I plead with you to accord me all the necessary support," he said. He was welcomed in the county by Mr Joseph Kiangoi who is seeking the Nyamira senate seat, Walter Nyambati (governorship candidate) and Nyamira County Speaker Joash Nyamoko, now seeking the North Mugirango parliamentary seat. Mr Kiangoi asked the President to ensure the Ekerenyo-Gekendo-Nyamaiya road is tarmacked. He also called for the waiver of coffee and tea loans owed by Nyamiira farmers to financial institutions.   Uhuru expected to give Sh470 million to integrated IDPs in Nyamira.