The latest report by the Controller of Budget on the performance of the counties on development expenditure is quite troubling. None of the 47 counties spent half of their allocations on development in current financial year that is ending on Saturday. Yet they over-spent on personnel emoluments and other operational costs. LOWEST SPENDERS An analysis of the available figures indicates that the highest spend on development was 40.2 per cent. But the worst is that some counties spent less than one per cent, which literally means they did not use the money. For the year under review, the counties were collectively allocated Sh331 billion proportionately. According to the analysis, the lowest spenders on development were Nyeri, Nairobi and Nyandarua. ALLOCATIONCounties have become the strategic units for national development. In the past four-and-a-half years, remarkable development has been realised because of the county-based projects and the expectation is that the bar should only go up. Precisely, that is the reason why there is a clamour to raise the allocations to counties, from the current constitutionally prescribed 15 per cent to at least 45 per cent of the revenues annually. It is particularly disheartening when a county such as Nairobi, which is in dire need of a face-lift, is unable to spend resources allocated to it. NOMINATIONS Infrastructure, utilities and service delivery are terribly poor, yet there is money that should have been used to fix them. More worrying, the current crop of county leaders is winding up its terms in August. Several governors are on their way out, having lost nominations. Those in the race are facing stiff competition and may not survive the onslaught in many counties. CAMPAIGNS Worse, there is no proper system for managing the transition. So there is a danger that the unused funds might get lost through dubious schemes. In fact, there is serious concern that county funds are probably now being channelled into the election campaigns. The Controller of Budget and other relevant organs must seek to enforce budget spend. But the better option is for the voters to lock out non-performing county leaders in the coming elections.  