Q. A company that I have looked forward to working in for a long time has offered me an internship opportunity. I intend to negotiate for a full-time job once my internship comes to an end, but I do not know the best way to go about it. Please help me.  This is a great opportunity for you to work in the organisation that has been your dream employer, however, you need to remember that an internship is not a job, and neither is there a guarantee that the internship will result in a job offer. You are there first and foremost to learn, a competitive advantage for you since most fresh graduates struggle to acquire experience within the industry. Focus on learning as much as you possibly can so that you can acquire the necessary knowledge and experience. You should also take this opportunity to study the organisation, its policies and corporate culture. Most often, what you see while on the outside is very different from what you experience once you are inside. This will be an opportunity to confirm if this is an organisation you would be able to fit in as an employee in future should you be offered a job. In addition, establish professional relationships which will be beneficial to you beyond the internship. These contacts will form your network when searching for a job opportunity in future. You also need to hone your problem-solving capability. It is good practice to always look for alternative solutions to discuss with your supervisor when faced with a challenge. This way, you will be demonstrating ability to innovate and work with minimum supervision,  critical skills in today’s workplace. Since, your ultimate goal is to be offered employment, you need to demonstrate during that period that you are a good fit for the organisation. This will be judged by how well you perform any tasks or responsibilities allocated to you. Observe and adopt professional business conduct to increase your fit into the workplace. Also make your intentions known to your supervisor and the HR manager just in case an opportunity that suits you arises. Remember your greatest goal should be to learn before you aspire to earn your first pay cheque. Take the opportunity to explore all possibilities, you have all the time to be engaged in gainful employment in future.  