Does having more sex make your marriage happier? It sounds like a silly question. But the truth is it’s actually quite hard to tell. Because if you just ask people you get confusing answers. Like around 50 per cent of couples say it doesn’t make any difference. While the other half says it does. That’s because it matters how exactly you ask the question. If you give couples time to think about their answer, then they say one thing. But if you measure their instant, intuitive response, they say the other. AFFECTS MARRIAGE For example, imagine a psychologist asking you and your spouse, separately, how often you have sex. Most couples do agree on that, by the way! Then he goes on to ask how happy you are together, which gives you a moment or two to think about how to answer. The problem with that is that most people don’t want to believe that how often they make love affects their marriage. And so they say that their relationship’s fine, even when they rarely have sex together. Now imagine a psychologist checking you and your partner’s gut feelings about each other. That’s done by measuring what are called “automatic attitudes.” NEGATIVE WORDS The psychologist shows each of you photos of your spouse and then measures how quickly you respond to positive or negative words about them. A faster response to positive words and a slower response to negative words show a positive attitude towards your spouse and vice versa. Now you get the opposite result! If you have sex twice a week or more, you’ll show much more positive feelings towards your spouse than if you have sex once a week or less. That doesn’t mean that people are lying when they say that sex doesn’t matter in their relationship. They genuinely believe that. But they’re wrong! Subconsciously, couples really do like each other more when they have more sex. Which is important, because too few couples make sex a priority in their relationship. RELATIONSHIP WILL BE BETTER Clearly you should, because that guarantees that your relationship will be better. So make sex something you can talk about easily. Because that will help you understand what works for you both. Have a shared bedtime routine. Couples who go to bed at different times are much less likely to be intimate, as couples who watch TV in the bedroom or who’re forever checking out their Facebook accounts. SLEEP NAKED And couples who sleep naked and cuddle together as they settle down are always much happier together. Make a point of looking into each other’s eyes as often and be playful and tease each other outside the bedroom. Be completely open and honest with one another. This builds trust and intimacy in the whole of the relationship. Be enthusiastic about sex and willing to try anything that might be a turn-on. You’ll have a wonderful time in bed and  better relationship. nyumbayangu@me.com  