On May 31 we all cheered at the inauguration of the first phase of the standard gauge railway from Mombasa to Nairobi. Now Kenyans can travel between the two largest towns quickly and cheaply. Accelerated movement of cargo and people will mean more trade, more income generation and more jobs. Much less widely reported were results of studies by Dr Joseph Ogutu and colleagues at the International Livestock Research Institute, which reveal that wildlife numbers are plummeting. Some of our most treasured animals such as hirolas, rhinos, cheetah, lions and giraffes are being pushed to the brink of extinction. Nearly every region and habitat is in trouble, except Laikipia. But even here, hard-earned conservation gains are in danger of being wiped out in a year of drought and conflict. One ranch claims to have lost 70 per cent of its wildlife. KEY DRIVER Tourism accounts for 12 per cent of the gross domestic product and employs more than 300,000 Kenyans. As a mainstay of tourism, wildlife is a key driver of the economy. But wildlife conservation is increasingly misaligned with key development priorities: jobs, food security, ending poverty, health care and education. To those in power, all these goals are ultimately tied to a vision of Kenya becoming industrialised. This is the goal of our vision for 2030. What such a nation looks like, however, needs to be defined as an image that includes all the trappings of advanced infrastructure and systems: institutions that function, a democracy that works, a healthy environment, adequate water and clean energy, and liveable cities. An industrialised Kenya will still need wilderness and natural forests to soak up carbon and release fresh air and clean water, and parks and reserves to safeguard our unique natural heritage. ENVIRONMENTAL DAMAGE The country is hurtling along an accelerated course of development that is blind to the environmental damage it causes, dodging conservationists as if we are potholes on the road in an imaginary race to a finish line. This route leads to pollution, rivers clogged with plastic waste, habitat loss as rural landscapes are built on or converted to agriculture, and massive infrastructure developments across our wildernesses. The damage caused by the poor planning of dams, farms, ports, roads and railways is rapidly outpacing our ability to respond. Floods and droughts are causing more deaths than ever, traffic congestion threatens our cities and air pollution in Nairobi is among the world’s worst. We don’t even notice that there are no more clean-flowing rivers. We might notice that it’s getting hotter and drier and plant a few trees to feel good, but we don’t stop the illegal logging – it’s too much effort challenging the authorities when there’s no political will. So we also ignore the trucks that are dredging up sand and destroying our rivers and turn a blind eye to the dumping of waste on roadsides and into the city streams. Conservation organisations are reduced to fighting rear-guard actions on the streets or in courts. But we are also to blame, as we have failed to respond with a clear vision that makes wildlife conservation relevant to all. CHANGE COURSE It is not too late. We can change the course of history by reconnecting our people to nature. This week, the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources launched a consultation intended to provide guidelines for a new wildlife strategy. I urge Kenyans to take this rare opportunity to articulate a future in which each of us is a part of the solution. Conservationists will need to make compromises in order to reach agreement among the most important stakeholders – landowners, communities, businesses and the tourism sector – around an approach of conservation that is compatible with the national development agenda. We should regroup around a new vision of conservation that all Kenyans can aspire to.  Paula Kahumbu is an award-winning wildlife conservationist and the chief executive officer of WildlifeDirect. paula@wildlifedirect.org  