The decision to ban plastic bags is a statement of commitment to creating a sustainable environment. In February, the Environment ministry published a legal notice, giving manufacturers six months to get rid of plastic bags. That deadline is coming up in September, and it means that the manufacturers and large-scale users such as supermarkets must scale down production and purchase of plastics. POLLUTIONIn the countdown, the National Environment Management Authority (Nema) has directed manufacturers to declare the stocks they are holding, while big retailers have been given up to August 28 to clear what they have. It is notable that some retailers have already stopped stocking plastic bags and are encouraging their customers to use alternatives. Eliminating plastic bags is a significant step in cleaning up the environment. Plastic bags are hazardous as they are non-biodegradable. WASTE MANAGEMENT Urban centres are most affected, given the high usage of plastics and poor waste management. Available statistics indicate that the country uses about 24 million plastic bags monthly. The bulk of the used plastics ends up being deposited in the environment. It also said that on average, 80 per cent of marine litter is plastic washed away by rains and deposited in water masses and it poses a serious threat to aquatic life. REVENUEThis is the third attempt to eliminate plastics. The first was in 2007 and the second in 2010. However, due to strong lobbying by manufacturers and given the fact they bring in huge revenues in form of taxes, the decisions were rescinded. This time round, the ban must be enforced. Rwanda set an example in 2008, when it outlawed the use of plastics and even declared that visitors were not allowed into the country with the stuff. We have lessons to draw from Rwanda. With just about two months to go, Nema and the ministry must enhance public communication on the plastics ban. Time lines for key milestones towards enforcing the ban must be clearly spelt out. Manufacturers and retailers have to be prepared adequately for the transition.  