I am a receptionist at a manufacturing company. A colleague in the purchasing and supply department keeps asking me to call clients and demand for payment owed to the company. How do I tell him that this is his job, not mine, without causing conflict?  In more established organisations, there are clearly defined departments responsible for the various activities that facilitate the organisation to achieve its objectives. However, in start up companies, the employees may be required to take up more responsibilities beyond their official titles. A receptionist’s job can be monotonous and repetitive, and it is not unusual for one to be assigned other responsibilities to enrich their day-to-day job. In this difficult economic times and reduced business, it is good when employees are able to handle multiple roles. Should there be downsizing, your role might be retained due to the extra responsibilities that you handle. The fact is that the role of a receptionist is slowly being eliminated as a stand-alone role. What you should focus on is performing the extra responsibility to the best of your ability. This way you will be recognised, and hopefully you might be given better compensation or considered for a more professional role in the organisation. Team work also requires that you work together towards a common objective, hence if you are able to spare some time to assist your colleague, this is seen as a good gesture. Debt collection traditionally is a responsibility of credit control, a part of the finance department, therefore, your colleague is also going the ‘extra mile’, however, if purchasing is mandated to collect debt in your organisation, then in case you believe that your colleague is shoving his responsibility to you, you could politely inform him that he should manage his responsibilities. If he is not responsive, consider escalating the matter to the supervisor so that it can be resolved amicably. Given this background, it is in your  interest to enhance your role with the hope that you will pick up new skills that can make you more marketable and eligible for a more professional role. Consider taking a professional course in an area of your interest to prepare yourself for any relevant vacancy that may arise. You are responsible for your career journey.  