Kenya should reduce human activities that have had a negative impact on the environment, Taita-Taveta Governor John Mruttu has said. Speaking during World Environment Day celebrations, Mr Mruttu said the country should be worried about the continuing degradation of the environment that has led to reduced rainfall and drought. “If you look at the number of rivers that have stopped flowing and areas that were completely aqueous and grasslands are completely dry, my honest opinion is that we don’t have a reason to celebrate,” he said. The county boss said the country needs to find ways of reversing the already damaged environment to save itself from future calamities. POPULATION He said it is worrying that areas that had the highest forest cover 20 years ago have been reduced to bare lands with the remaining ones facing danger of being cut by charcoal burners and illegal logging. “With the increasing population it is only reasonable that we encourage tree planting to replace those that have been cut down,’ he added. Mr Mruttu attributed drought, that has hit hard most parts of the country, to human activities that has led to climate change. “The other day we imported maize due to poor yield, it was partly blamed on persistent drought because when it comes to food and water, we are still relying on the environment,” he added The governor called on non-governmental agencies to join hands in sensitising the people on importance of preserving and protecting the environment. DEGRADATION County Executive in charge of Tourism, Environment and Natural Resources Alexander Mwangeka said environmental studies should be introduced at primary level to enable the young ones grow up with the culture of conserving it. He said the county, through environment committee action plan, has sponsored Bills and policies aimed at protecting the environment from degradation. Mr Mwangeka also said the county government had acquired a 30-acre plot of land to relocate garbage dumping site from Chakalari to Ndarabi. While directing the department concerned to relocate the dumping site quickly, Governor Mruttu said the site is posing danger to the residents due to the emissions.  