There was a mood of expectation in Lagos, Nigeria as award-winning writer Helon Habila made his way to the stage of the Federal Palace Hotel on the evening of Saturday, May 20. As chairman of the 2016 judges, he would be announcing the winner of the Etisalat Prize for Literature, the richest prize for a debut work of fiction of more than 30,000 words. Joining him on stage were fellow judges, Elinor Sisulu of Zimbabwe and Renee Edwige Dro of Cote d’Ivoire. The Etisalat Prize for Literature was set up four years ago to celebrate writers from the continent and has quickly established itself as a leading prize for African literature. Apart the lucrative prize money of Sh2 million (£15,000), the winner gets a fellowship at the University of East Anglia in the UK, under the mentorship of Giles Foden, famous for his book The Last King of Scotland, which was made into the movie of the same title.  Previous winners of the prize are Zimbabwe’s Noviolet Bulawayo in 2013, South Africa’s Songeziwe Mahlangu in 2014 and DR Congo’s Fiston Mwanza Mujila in 2015. In the running for the accolades, the fellowship and the money this year was a shortlist of Nigeria’s Julie Iromuanya with her novel Mr and Mrs Doctor, fellow Nigerian Jowhor Ile for And After Many Days and South Africa’s Jacqui L’Ange for The Seed Thief. The three were shortlisted from scores of books by writers of African descent. Habila then read the winner of the rich prize and the room erupted as And After Many Days by Jowhor Ile was declared the best debut work of fiction written or translated in to English on the continent in the last year. Ile would be the first Nigerian to take the sought after-accolade in its four year run. The Port Harcourt-raised Nigerian had been published in online spaces like US literary journal McSweeney’s Quarterly as well as Nigeria’s Brittlepaper before his novel came out. He took his writing seriously enough to quit his consulting job and pursue it full time; a masterstroke as he gains instant legend and a hefty payday for his efforts. Ile was first made known to the wider public when his contemporary, Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie, stated of his work in an interview: “There is a young man called Jowhor Ile who is finishing a novel, who I think is spectacular. His novel, when it comes out, will be very good.” The book when it finally came had some of the biggest endorsements you can expect. Binyavanga Wainaina called him “a rare talent” whilst Nigerian writer Igoni Barrett called him “a writer whose rare insight is evident not only through the voice he breaths into his characters but how deep he digs to tap the wellspring of their history.” High accolades from some of the most well-known African contemporary writers. With his book, you meet the Utus, a postcard middle class family of five with a lawyer father, a teacher mother and three children — two boys and a girl as a middle child. Like every middle class family in Nigeria in the 1990s, they drive a Peugeot 504, live in the big city and drive to their village home during the school holidays. There they would stay at home built by their parents who were born into that community. The story begins with Paul, the first born in the family, walking out of home one day, resulting in a crisis in the family.  Although a third-person narrative, the story is told mainly from the perspective of Ajie, the last born son. And After Many Days begins in 1995 when Nigeria is going through a tumultuous period in its history with university student riots as well as conflicts over oil. Coupled with this, the nation is dealing with an iron-fisted military ruler. After Paul’s disappearance, the story takes us back to a time when the Utus were happy together. Ajie engages with his older brother Paul, whom he hero worships and squabbles with his older sister Bibi. In the village, he quietly follows the conversations of elders and his father, a respected member of the community, as they discuss issues of importance to them. The conflict over oil resources, the villagers’ disagreements with an oil company and the support the oil company gets from the federal government are brought into the stage. That Bendic, the patriarch of the Utu family, takes the side of his villagers gives the reader some sense of foreboding. Did this work have anything to do with Paul’s eventual departure? Take this: “This was not the first time that Bendic was taking up matters with the authorities. Once he had taken the federal government to court. That was a story all his children knew to its finest details…” Ajie clearly hero-worships both his father and his older brother Paul. Is it possible, the reader wonders, that Paul equally admired his father and his admiration may have led him to take the law into his own hands? Paul is not an unflawed character as hinted by his engagement with a domestic worker. Perhaps there is more to his absence than meets the eye? One of the best aspects of this novel is the prose which keeps you glued to the pages. Here is one gem from page 173: “The tall plantain tree in the corner waved its arms and cast a shadow on the fence. In the moonlight, the shadow looked like a pregnant woman with two children by her side waiting for the bus.” The characters, while engaging, seem at times to need more fleshing out to ensure that we know more about them. The father in the story, Bendic, is suddenly revealed to be an older man at the later stages of the book. It is not clear if this is a stylistic device for the plot or if it was an oversight during the editing process. The two narratives of the family and the nation seem, while ambitious, sometimes to fail to blend. By the time the reader finds out what happened to Paul, it does not seem as important and the ending feels anxious to tie things up. With that being said, And After Many Days is still very much a compelling read and managed to keep me from doing anything else from the time I started reading until I completed it. It’s not the first time that the loss of a family member is at the centre of the narrative in an African novel. The late Mwangi Gicheru addresses this in his 1984 novel Two in One. Unlike in Gicheru’s novel, Ile does not lead us through a world of kidnappers but focuses on the family and how it copes with their missing child and brother. Nigerian writer Toni Kan also makes an attempt with his new title, The Carnivorous City, when one of the Lagos “big boys” vanishes and his older brother comes to town to try and find him. Ile’s And After Many Days is a worthy addition to the oft-occuring but untold stories of disappearances. With his win, Jowhor Ile has placed himself as a new star on the African literary scene.  