Amani National Congress has accused President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto of being easily irritable whenever issues of accountability are thrown their way. The party has warned that this is dangerous for the stability of the country. The party said that the two leaders have failed to respond to the questions raised by the National Super Alliance (Nasa) over the procurement of ballot papers for the 2017 General Election and had instead attacked the character of its leader, Mr Musalia Mudavadi. DISPLAYED FRUSTRATION “The two (Uhuru and Ruto) publicly displayed their frustration over Jubilee’s looming defeat at the ballot on August 8 by crafting personalised attacks and rants with their most toxic venom directed at Mr Mudavadi,” ANC said in a statement said which was signed by secretary General Godfrey Osotsi. While campaigning in Kericho on Thursday, the President and his deputy had attacked and Nasa and Mr Mudavadi in particular, accusing him of being idle and coveting Mr Ezra Chiloba’s job as the CEO of the electoral commission. Mr Osotsi said it had become fashionable for the two leaders to get irked and terrified whenever issues of accountability are raised. CHEAP PROPAGANDA The ANC official said the two leaders have instead resorted to diverting attention of the public through what he described as stale package of lies, cheap propaganda and alarmist tactics. READ: Mudavadi drops ballot bomb “They shout the loudest when in reality the opposite abounds. And they want Kenyans to imbibe those sadistic lies like gospel truth,” Mr Osotsi said. On Wednesday, Mr Mudavadi claimed that President Uhuru’s younger brother, Muhoho Kenyatta, was the local agent of Al Ghurair Print and Publishing Company Limited of Dubai, the firm that won the tender for the printing of ballot papers. COME OUT CLEAN “We want President Uhuru to come out clean on his and family’s links with the Dubai firm and state his interests. The interests, in our view, is clear. The President and his Jubilee party are looking for a firm that can supply extra ballots secretly as well as was the case in 2013,” Mr Mudavadi said. READ: Doubts raised on electoral commission However, Jubilee party rejected the ANC’s leader assertion saying that Nasa was out to delay the general election to December. MEGA CORRUPTION On Wednesday Mr Osotsi said the President and his deputy are waking up to the realisation that Kenyans gave up on them a long time ago on matters of accountability. “Kenyans need answers on the following: mega corruption in jubilee government, extreme tribalism, high cost of living, high inflation, shortage of essential commodities, increasing labour woes, Eurobond scandal, hyper inflated Standard Gauge Railway project, Afya house scandal and the National Youth Service scandal," he said.  