A relative of Jubilee Party politician Aden Duale and Kenya National Union of Teachers (Knut) Secretary-General Wilson Sossion have been picked for nomination to Parliament by ODM. The list has been submitted to the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) for nomination to the National Assembly. Khadija Hussein, a marketing consultant from Garissa County, is the daughter of former Cabinet minister Hussein Maalim Mohammed. Mr Mohammed is remembered as one of the longest-serving MPs and Cabinet ministers, having served in the Cabinet of President Daniel Moi from 1983 to 2002. Mr Maalim first entered politics in 1979 and spent the first three years as a backbencher. He served as a minister from 1982 to 2002 before Kanu was kicked out of power. FATHER-IN-LAW During his 20-year stint as a minister, he served in eight ministries — Office of the President, Culture and Social Services, Water, Land Reclamation, Roads Development, Research and Technology, Medical Services, and Home Affairs. He is a younger brother of General Mahmoud Mohammed, the soldier who memorably helped thwart the 1982 coup attempt and served as the Chief of General of Staff between 1986 and 1996. The retired general is Mr Duale’s father-in-law. Outgoing Migori Woman MP Dennitah Ghatti, who lost her bid to retain the seat in the ODM party primaries in May, is also on the list. Ms Ghatti has been placed in the category of people with disabilities. Others on the list are Wesonga Lutta, from Kakamega County, John Ketora, the Orange Young Democrats League official, and Asha Abdi, from Isiolo and representing marginalised groups. JOHO MAN Also top on the list is Prof Jacqueline Oduol, who served as permanent secretary for gender, children and social development during the Grand Coalition government. Prof Oduol is a lecturer at the United States International University- Africa and an author. She unsuccessfully contested the Alego Usonga parliamentary seat in 2007. She was appointed a PS in the Kibaki-Raila led regime in 2008. On the list as well, is Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho’s director of political affairs Idris Abdirahman who also served in former Prime Minister Raila Odinga’s office in the communication department between 2008 and 2013.   The President should not take credit for the Sh15 billion private investment in Kisumu by EABL, he says.