You know my inclination (not to say weakness) for sport and significant ladies. So, when you get a combination of these two, you can be assured of my attention.This is what happened last week when Dr Gertrude Mutharika spent a day on a netball court in Blantyre, playing and training with the Malawi Queens.The Malawi Queens are the best netball team in Africa, ranked number three in the world, and Dr Mutharika is Malawi s First Lady. You might remember her visit to Nairobi in March in her capacity as the Chair of the African First Ladies Organisation Against HIV/AIDS (AFLOA). I thought she sounded like a woman of action. So, I was a captive spectator.Apart from all that, however, Malawi has always held an intriguing fascination for me. The name Gertrude itself most intimately brings to my mind that great teacher, friend, mum and grandma, Auntie Gertrude Rubadiri, whose birthday we celebrated some time ago. Her boundless hospitality at her spacious bungalow and garden at Flame Tree Close, now a part of the university s guest house, is one of my warmest memories of Makerere.We all seemed to end up somehow at Flame Tree. I clearly remember, for example, the wedding reception we held there for the poet Richard Ntiru and his bride, who cut a barbecued goat instead of a cake.Of course, Flame Tree was as inseparable from Gertrude as she was inseparable from David Rubadiri, her flame and heart-throb since her student days at Fort Hare. David Rubadiri was, of course, as he remains today, our strongest link to Malawi and its romantic, intellectual and creative tradition.I will not say whether the great Malawian patriarch belongs more to Kenya or to Uganda. We both rightfully claim him as one of our own. Little do most of us know that the little island of Liuli in the Nyasa (Lake Malawi) where he was born is within calling distance of Tanzania, where I believe he has ancestral roots, too.It all sounds a little complicated, but it underlines one of my favourite simple beliefs: that we are all one people, maliciously splintered by colonial frontiers. Rubadiri could easily have been Tanzanian today if the colonial border that divides Malawi and Tanzania had been drawn differently. Moreover, many prominent Tanzanian and Kenyan Swahili families are of Malawian ( Nyasaland ) descent.Incidentally, many Tanzanians prefer to call Lake Malawi simply Nyasa (the lake). I discovered this on a visit to the Njombe area of the Tanzanian Southern Highlands in 1966. Relations between the two neighbours were not particularly warm then, as Mwalimu Nyerere seriously objected to Kamuzu Banda s growing autocratic tendencies. But I now realise there was more to it than personal political differences, as recent border disputes, especially over the lake, indicate.I have never been inside Malawi but, as I was saying, I, like many other East Africans, feel a strong sense of kinship to the land and its people. For us literary devotees, the link is not only through Rubadiri but also through such stalwarts as Legson Kayira of I Will Try and The Looming Shadow fame. I particularly admire the poets, like Frank Chipasula, Felix Mnthali and, especially, Jack Mapanje, Banda s long-time political detainee and author of verse collections like Of Chameleons and Men and Skipping Without Ropes.Uganda s verse diva, Prof Susan Kiguli, the author of The African Saga, has a particularly warm love for Jack Mapanje, as well as for David Rubadiri, who taught her on his brief return to Makerere in the late 1990s. Writing about Susan Kiguli s enthusiasm for Mapanje, one of her students, and mine, Dr Mildred Barya, says that the lady don s love is overwhelming. My first knowledge of Jack Mapanje s writing, says Barya, was through Susan Kiguli, who was my undergrad professor, and recited several of Mapanje s poems with such passion and energy you just had to love her, and the poems, too. They were awesome, fresh, and you could imagine the rhythms of the talking drum accompanying the beats. I wish I could hear that said about me by a student of mine, especially a lady like Mildred Barya, a poet in her own right, whose Men Like Chocolates But They Won t Say collection I thoroughly enjoyed. I would know I had succeeded as a literature teacher. Professor Kiguli (with a little help from me) certainly succeeded with Mildred Barya, currently a professor of creative writing in the US.Incidentally, Jack Mapanje, a linguist who, like me, does literature for spiritual survival, once revealed to us, in a public lecture at Makerere, that our East African books were banned in Banda s 1970s Malawi. Mapanje and other daring students read them clandestinely, under their blankets, when they could lay hands on them. It was humbling to hear the maestro say that the reading might have contributed to his development.But just when I thought I had had my fair share of Malawian gracefulness, I fell into the adorable arms of Edrinnie Lora-Kayambazinthu and Fulata Lusungu Moyo. Fulata is a theologian of international repute who currently works with the World Council of Churches in Geneva. But when I first met her, she was based at the University of Malawi, where Edrinnie, too, was, and still is, a professor of linguistics.What brought us together was our love of literature, and the Women Writing Africa project. Working and sharing, over several years, with these absolutely brilliant and uniquely articulate sisters, was an abundantly rewarding experience for me. I was endearingly educated about the lives of the people of that lake land that I am yet to visit.Incidentally, the Malawi Queens netball training session in which Dr Mutharika participated is in preparation for a major tournament in Uganda, later this month. Maybe Mama Janet Museveni should consider training with the Uganda She-Cranes, if they are to stand a chance against the Malawian powerhouse.After all, Uganda s First Lady is also the Minister for Sports. Prof Bukenya is one of the leading scholars of English and Literature in East Africa. [email&#160;protected] email print email print