Former Devolution Cabinet Secretary Anne Waiguru, whom Parliament recently indicted over a Sh791 million National Youth Service scandal, has been cleared to contest the Kirinyaga gubernatorial seat. The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) on Friday gave Ms Waiguru the green light to run for the top county seat at its Kerugoya town offices. OTHERS The Jubilee Party nominee is among aspirants cleared despite the Kenya Integrity Alliance's asking IEBC to consider barring them over integrity questions they face. Ms Waiguru has denied playing any role in the loss of taxpayer money and on Wednesday, she said the lost money was recovered by the Asset Recovery Agency. She is set to face off with, among others, Narc-Kenya leader Martha Karua and incumbent Joseph Ndathi, who is seeking to defend his seat as an independent. Other candidates the rights activists wanted blocked but have been cleared are Alfred Mutua (Machakos), Evans Kidero (Nairobi), Hassan Joho (Mombasa), Mwangi Wa Iria (Murang’a) and Cyprian Awiti (Homa Bay). MPs last week adopted a report by the Public Accounts Committee recommending that Ms Waiguru undergo investigations, a lifestyle audit and eventually be barred from public office over the NYS scandal. SH1.2 BILLION At least Sh1.2 billion was lost in the scandal that involved payments for phantom supplies and outright theft of cash from NYS bank accounts. The PAC recommended that Ms Waiguru "be barred from holding public office, if found guilty after due process, in light of her overall leadership failures at the ministry.” But the former Cabinet secretary has moved to court to challenge the Public Accounts Committee’s recommendation that she be held responsible for the loss. She has sued the National Assembly, the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission, the Director of Criminal Investigations and the Attorney-General. Ms Waiguru was on Friday declared validly nominated to run for the seat at St Michael Primary School and vowed that her ambition to become the second Kirinyaga governor was unstoppable. Ms Waiguru arrived at the nomination centre in a convoy of vehicles and was welcomed by the local Jubilee vice-chairman Mureithi Kang'ara. CELEBRATIONS Accompanied by her running mate, Peter Ndambiri, the former CS presented her nomination papers to the IEBC officials after which she was given the go-ahead to contest. On securing the IEBC green light, her supporters burst into celebrations and chanted victory songs. Ms Waiguru said nothing would stop her from pursuing her political ambition. "There was fear that I will not be cleared but I want to tell you that there is God in heaven and I will overcome all hurdles ahead of me," she said. Ms Waiguru said she was ready to battle it out with her rivals. "I overwhelmingly won the Jubilee nominations and I will do it again in the August polls. There will be no retreat or surrender," she said. RIVALS Ms Waiguru warned that some of her rivals who lost in the Jubilee nominations would be “embarrassed” again. "Some of the losers joined other parties and others will be contesting as independent candidates. I will still floor them," said Ms Waiguru. She promised to reform agriculture and health sectors if elected as the county’s boss. She was emphatic that the two sectors were not doing well and they needed total reform. "Agriculture is the mainstay of the residents yet it is doing badly. Hospitals lack adequate facilities and drugs,” she said. “I will therefore work extra hard to ensure the sectors are improved to bring the suffering of residents to an end.” Ms Waiguru called on residents to turn out in large numbers in August and vote for her. NASA "I need the support of a majority of the residents to win. Therefore, I urge them to vote for me in a big way come the election," she said. The candidate also urged residents to reject National Super Alliance (Nasa) flag-bearer Raila Odinga and re-elect President Uhuru Kenyatta. "The Nasa torch-bearer has nothing to offer,” she said. “He only knows to criticise the government. He should not be voted for during the August polls.” Mr Ndambiri shared in Ms Waiguru's sentiments and vowed to campaign against Nasa in the region. "We shall ensure that Nasa does not get a single vote in the region.”  