Cabinet secretaries have dared National Super Alliance leaders to sue them for campaigning for President Uhuru Kenyatta’s re-election. Speaking in Voi, Devolution Cabinet Secretary Mwangi Kiunjuri defended his actions and those of his colleagues, arguing that their role is to tell Kenyans "what the government is doing" and that they are doing what is mandated of them. ILLEGAL ACTS The ministry bosses have had to shield themselves against barbs from Nasa over their actions, which critics say are unlawful. The Raila Odinga-led coalition wrote to Director of Public Prosecutions Keriako Tobiko calling for legal action against the ministers for engaging in politics. They have also accused the Jubilee government of using public resources to campaign. Mr Kiunjuri said he is ready to take a stand in court for campaigning for the Head of State. DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS Also, speaking during the funeral of Transport Cabinet Secretary James Macharia’s father at ACK Kamung’ang’a in Murang'a County, Water Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa said they are not in breach of any law. "We have a responsibility to formulating policies, defending and implementing those policies. If you want to change the lives of Kenyans you do so by promoting good policies," he said. Mr Macharia said they have been executing government initiatives funded by taxpayers' money and therefore they have a responsibility to outline what they have achieved. JUBILEE RECORD He said they will not be cowed by anyone or anything. "We recently launched the standard gauge railway and we must notify the public about it. Even if you take us to court, we will not stop communicating to Kenyans about our achievements," he said. They said the Opposition is jealous of the milestones President Kenyatta’s government has achieved in its first term. ELECTIONS On why Nasa is "attacking" the secretaries, Mr Kiunjuri said it is because they have developed cold feet ahead of the August General Election and want to derail it. But he said the elections will take place as planned. "I am not afraid and I won't be intimidated. Days are gone for cowards. I will campaign for re-election of President Uhuru Kenyatta and his Deputy William Ruto who are my bosses," he said, adding that they are ready to contribute money for Nasa leaders to pay lawyers in case they are taken to court. HAGUE COURT He warned that political leaders intending to cause violence after the General Election will be handed to the International Criminal Court (ICC). "Hague plans are still on and those who think they will cause violence and go [scot-free] are in for a rude shock. We will take them there just like they did to Mr Kenyatta and Mr Ruto," he said. For his part, Murang'a Governor Mwangi wa Iria accused Nasa of unfairly targeting ministers. VISION 2030 Mr Wa Iria said ministers are drivers of Vision 2030, which strives to facilitate social, economic and political transformation. "I cannot understand how ministers can drive Vision 2030 without one pillar, which is politics. If they (Nasa) are sincere in their claims, then they should tell Cabinet secretaries to ignore Vision 2030," he said. The Opposition asked Mr Tobiko to prosecute seven Cabinet secretaries. The others are Fred Matiang’i (Education), Najib Balala (Tourism), Joseph Nkaissery (Interior) and Cleopa Mailu (Health).   Tobiko give 7-day ultimatum to charge them for hunting votes for Jubilee.