An attempt by Kiharu MP Irungu Kang’ata to scrap the Senate two years ago has returned to haunt him in his bid to unseat Murang’a Senator Kembi Gitura in the August polls. Mr Gitura, who is also the Deputy Speaker, took a swipe at the MP on Wednesday during an event at Kambiti in Murang’a County. Mr Kang’ata also attended the event. ENEMY OF DEVOLUTION He reminded the electorate of his rival’s attempt to abolish the Senate. Mr Gitura accused the MP of plotting to kill and frustrate devolution through dissolution of the Senate, which he said plays an important role in the operations of the county. “You cannot allow that same person who wanted to abolish the Senate to win the election, yet they did not support its existence,” he told residents. ALL IS WELL NOWSpeaking shortly after Mr Kang’ata had addressed the crowd, Mr Gitura criticised the MP for fighting the Senate and then launching a bid to unseat him. In 2015, Mr Kang’ata drafted a Motion seeking to push for the scrapping of Senate on grounds that it was irrelevant. But the in an interview with Nation, he said he no longer had a fight with the Senate after he realised that the problem was not with the institution but the calibre of lawmakers in that House. “I had proposed scrapping of the Senate on the basis of senators not acting decisively while money was being squandered. I will prevent loss of funds in the counties by making laws that protect those assets in the first place,” he said. COUNTY FUNDSHe termed the recent attack on him as unfair. “Even if he insults me, I will not abuse him or fight him,” he said. Mr Kang’ata said most senators have failed to rein in their governors. While appearing to attack the MP’s tactics, Mr Gitura said the Senate was “not a House of circus”. Mr Kang’ata is fond of cracking jokes and entertaining crowds, which has gained him huge support. JUBILEE CANDIDATEMr Gitura, on the other hand, is a no-nonsense and diplomatic politician. “The Senate requires sober people who can make laws and improve the state of counties,” the Deputy Speaker said. Political analyst Peter Kagwanja argues that Mr Kang’ata has an upper hand over Mr Gitura given that Jubilee enjoys popularity in the region. “The fact that he clinched the party ticket gives him an upper hand in the elections. He has joined forces with the governor and the women rep, which is a strong force,” he said. He however noted that while Mr Kang’ata is a youthful leader, Mr Gitura is a respected politician owing to his experience.  