Opposition presidential candidate Raila Odinga on Wednesday unveiled a 15-member campaign team. The team is chaired by Musalia Mudavadi, the Amani National Congress leader and National Super Alliance (Nasa) principal. Mr Mudavadi’s deputies are Machakos Senator Johnson Muthama, who quit the race and vowed to back Mr Odinga for the top job and Olga Karani, who ditched Deputy President William Ruto for Mr Odinga before the 2013 elections. Ms Karani sat in the team that selected the current Wafula Chebukati-led seven-member electoral commission. Lawyer Willis Otieno, who successfully argued the High Court case that ruled that constituency results in a presidential elections will be final before an appeal was lodged at the Court of Appeal, will be the chairman of the presidential campaign secretariat. STEERING COMMITTEE “All departments of the Nasa campaign will be headed by a professional. We are now ready for the elections, and our campaign team is well organised and ready. I am more than confident of our bid to clinch the 10 million votes from Kenyans in August 8,” said Mr Odinga. Senator Muthama and Ms Karani will also sit on a 13-member steering committee. The committee consists of six ODM members, led by Siaya Senator James Orengo, who had co-chaired the team that midwifed the formation of the joint opposition coalition. Other members of ODM on the steering committee are deputy party leader and Mombasa Governor Hassan Ali Joho, secretary-general Agnes Zani, party director of elections Junet Mohamed (Suna East), treasurer Timothy Bosire (Kitutu Masaba) and Memusi Kanchori (Kajiado Central MP). Others are Cynthia Mutere, chairwoman of the committee of experts that drafted the 2010 Constitution, senior counsel Nzamba Kitonga, Brown Makotsi, Tirop Kosgey, and David Kipyegon Sang. The teams will also be divided into 21 regions to manage the different areas. COUNTY TEAMS Turkana Governor Josphat Nanok will man Turkana and West Pokot; Mr Joho (Coast), Chesumei MP Elijah Lagat and Ms Karani (Elgeyo Marakwet, Uasin Gishu, Nandi and Baringo); and Laikipia North MP Mathew Lempurkel (Laikipia and Samburu). Others are Governor Evans Kidero and Mr Muthama (Nairobi), Ken Nganga and Jacob Nasonga (Bungoma and Trans Nzoia), and Ken Njiraini (Busia, Vihiga and Kakamega). Wiper deputy party leader Farah Maalim and Balambala MP Abdikadir Aden will handle Garissa, with Wajir Governor Ahmed Abdullahi handling his county. At the same time, Mike Rubia, son of independence hero Charles Rubia, will handle Central Kenya, with former minister Kirugi M’mukindia dealing with Meru, while Senate Majority Leader Kithure Kindiki’s brother, Prof Isaiah Kindiki, will take care of Tharaka-Nithi. Mr Bosire has been tasked with Kisii, while Mr Odinga’s elder brother Oburu Oginga and Homa Bay Woman Representative Gladys Wanga will deal with Nyanza. Makueni Governor Kivutha Kibwana has been tasked with handling the Eastern region.   Different coalitions marshal resources and lead teams.