Leaders of Mombasa County have turned the hit on parents over rampant insecurity. Speaking at Treasury Square during Idd Baraza, the leaders, led by Governor Hassan Joho, said that insecurity has taken away the glory of the resort city. Governor Joho warned parents of dire consequences if they fail to take good care of their children, who are part of criminal gangs terrorising residents. "The way children are being raised has really changed. "The parents have become the servants of these children and that is why it has become hard for them to take charge and control them. "If parents cannot heed our calls to help deal with the children how else do you want us to help,?" Mr Joho asked. SOCIAL PROBLEMMvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir reached out to the courts to ensure that those charged are deterred from going back to the life of crime. Mr Nassir also said that residents are fed up being tormented by gangs and will take the law into their own hands. "If you do not take care of these young boys you will end up picking their bodies on the roads after being killed by the people. "This is not a political problem but a social one. We are telling the magistrates to give those youth hefty fines when they are taken to court because it is of their interest as well because once they are released they will be dealt with by the society," he said. EDUCATION For instance on Friday, a suspected gang leader known as Mohammed Bobocha was lynched, and five - also suspected - gang members arrested. Kisauni MP Rashid Bedzimba and his Jomvu counterpart Omar Mwinyi urged the parents to stand up with the community to ensure there is harmony. "Parents, we are the ones to ensure that our children get education for a better future," Mr Mwinyi said. PEACE AMONG LEADERS Mr Mahmoud Salim, the county deputy commissioner, said the government will not negotiate on matters security. "We have profiled all these youth and we ask the remaining members of those gangs [to] surrender because we will not relent. We are going to take tough actions against them," he said. The leaders spoke after conducting Idd prayers at Ronald Ngala grounds where political rivals embraced each other. Mombasa gubernatorial candidates Suleiman Shahbal (Jubilee Party), Hassan Omar (Wiper party) and the incumbent Mr Joho of ODM hugged each other after praying. Chief Kadhi Ahmed Muhdhar was present.   Leaders hug each other after prayers and exchange pleasantries.