Athletics Kenya’s Youth Committee chairman, Barnaba Korir, has appealed to organisers of the World Under-18 Championships to avail funds on time to facilitate national trials planned for next week in Nairobi. Speaking Tuesday in Nairobi, Korir said they were facing financial challenges in hosting the youth trials set for Tuesday and Wednesday at Nyayo National Stadium to select a team that will represent Kenya at the World Under-18 Championships due July 12-16 at Kasarani. Korir urged the event’s Local Organising Committee to release Sh10 million to meet the cost of accommodating teams and other expenses during the trials. “We can’t start preparing for the trials without funding. Just as much as we are preparing the venues well, we also need to focus on producing a good Team Kenya that will challenge the rest of the world,” said Korir. However, World Under-18 Championship’s Local Organising Committee CEO Mwangi Muthee said the trials will go on as scheduled and that Kenya will have a good team. He cautioned against sideshows as Kenya prepares to select athletes for the championship. “We can’t start preparing for the trials without funding. Just as much as we are preparing the venues well, we also need to focus on producing a good Team Kenya that will challenge the rest of the world,” said Korir. However, Muthee said a team drawn from the Local Organising Committee, Ministry of Sport, Culture and the Arts and the Ministry of Education has been working hand in hand to finance the preparations of Team Kenya through school holiday coaching camps throughout the country. Muthee said preparation and management of Team Kenya was being done in the best way possible. Muthee said the LOC has received a lot of support from International Association of Athletics Federations, Athletics Kenya, the government and the host county Nairobi. “My opinion is that because of pulling together with all stakeholders, we shall stage a world class event that will make Kenyans proud and our visitors happy and impressed,” said Muthee. WORD HARD Muthee said that the AK Youth Commission should work hard at ensuring a smooth organisation of the trials, incorporating every legible athlete and competent technical officials from all its regions. Muthee explained that the he LOC will facilitate accommodation in Nairobi and ensure that all competitions' equipment are available. However, Muthee said that all these services will be accorded from a central point under the Ministry of Sports and specifically under its Head of Administration, Haroun Komen. “This is the first stop of all enquiries regarding services, funding and payment of invoices,” said Muthee. So far, equipment procured for Team Kenya, under the advice of AK, was distributed to camps countrywide at a cost of Sh831,000. Payments of Sh23.1 million was made to training camps since August 2016 and Sh 12.7million for the pre-trials in Eldoret. In total, Muthee said they have spent Sh36.8 million on Team Kenya's preparations.   “We want to take opportunity to show the world our rich culture."