President Uhuru Kenyatta and his Deputy William Ruto completed their campaign tour of Elgeyo-Marakwet County at Iten town urging locals to support his re-election bid because he gave their kinsmen plum jobs in government. Mr Kenyatta also asked the locals to give him and his deputy a second chance at the Presidency because of his administration’s achievements. Opposition leader Raila Odinga should not be voted for on August 8, Mr Kenyatta told the residents. While urging the locals to support his re-election bid, he said that he had offered their kinsmen plum State jobs citing National Treasury cabinet secretary Henry Rotich and Inspector-General of Police Joseph Boinnet as among those from the county among others. SUPREMACY BATTLES However, he was confronted with local political supremacy battles between Jubilee Party’s Alex Tolgos, the incumbent governor, and his rival Moses Changwony (Independent). Mr Changwony’s supporters had caused chaos in the town before Mr Kenyatta’s arrival. "I do not want to get involved in the local politics but I want to leave it to you and William," said the President amid applauses. Mr Ruto, had unsuccessfully attempted to unite the two factions. The governor’s supporters were allowed inside the Iten grounds while those of Mr Changwony remained outside. DISAPPOINTMENT The DP said he was aware of the local politics and said the Independent candidate cannot be allowed to cause divisions in the county inhabited by the two dominant communities of Marakwet and Keiyo. He drummed up support for Mr Tolgos but to his disappointment, he could not calm down the supporters of Mr Changwony. "God knows why all of these two communities were merged together and you have to embrace one another with love for each other," said the DP only to attract a resounding defiant response from the supporters of Mr Changwony who continued to boo. BOOED But the DP said: "I have heard you and we are going to digest that. We have agreed that we will vote Uhuru for President 100 per cent, but this one for Governorship you leave to me so that we can make it a house keeping for another day." When he spoke, Governor Tolgos who had difficult time, assured the President that he will win the race explaining that Mr Changwony was not competing with him for the first time. "Your Excellency, I have beaten him thrice and I will still beat him in August," said the Governor while being heckled by Mr Changwony’s supporters. Before the President arrived, there were fracas in Iten Town between the supporters of the two leaders that at some point turned ugly when a lorry ferrying Mr Tolgos' supporters was pelted with stones while other supporters on foot were being roughed up, posters destroyed and other chaotic scenes witnessed.  