Kajiado Governor David Nkedianye launched a blistering attack on his main challenger, former Security Cabinet Secretary Joseph Ole Lenku soon after being cleared to defend his seat on an ODM ticket. Dr Nkedianye made reference to Mr Ole Lenku’s time as Internal Security CS. “Kajiado County will not be led by failures. Ordinarily, ministers are transferred to other ministries. When you see a person being sacked from a government job you have a reason to fear,” the governor said. QUICK REJOINDER However, in a swift rejoinder Oloosirkon Sholinke Member of County Assembly, Daniel Kanchori, a close ally of Mr Ole Lenku, termed Dr Nkedianye’s attacks on the former CS as a sign of panic. “The governor knows that his time is up, over 400,000 voters in Kajiado will decide who will become our next governor and not Nkedianye. Let him prepare to hand over office to Ole Lenku because the voters will be sending him home,” said Mr Kanchori. The governor, who spoke in Kitengela during Madaraka Day celebrations, asked Kajiado residents to re-elect so that he can complete development projects he initiated. He expressed frustration at having to work with a county assembly made up of 23 out of 25 Jubilee MCAs. NASA BRIGADE “These MCAs have really given me a hard time; they are always opposing every move I make. Were it not for my firm hand, our county government would have broken down a long time ago,” said Dr Nkedianye. READ: Tobiko, Seneta contest spells doom for Jubilee Earlier, there were anxious moments when two Woman Representative aspirants affiliated to National Super Alliance aired their differences in public, highlighting the sense of mistrust within the coalition. When she took to the podium, ODM nominee Esther Somoire asked the audience to vote for her alongside other ODM nominees. COALITION PACT This did not go down well with Simayiai Rakita, the Wiper nominee, who spoke of a pact entered into by ODM party leader Raila Odinga and his Wiper Party counterpart, Kalonzo Musyoka. “It was agreed that we would elect an ODM governor, an ODM senator and a Wiper Woman Rep. I am the person to be elected. If ODM wants votes from Wiper then they should stop side-lining us,” said Ms Rakita. READ: Lenku, Nkedianye to exploit clan matrix in governorship chase Kajiado Central MP Memusi Kanchori, who accompanied Dr Nkedianye from Kajiado Town, asked President Kenyatta to sack Internal Security CS Joseph Nkaissery for playing partisan politics. “How do we expect fairness in security provision when the minister is going around the county campaigning for Jubilee?” wondered Mr Kanchori. Mr Kanchori seemed to respond to comments made by the minister last Saturday, to the effect that the current MP had nothing to show, in terms of development, ever since he was elected to Parliament. Mr Nkaissery has defended his decision to campaign for Jubilee, saying that there was nothing wrong in telling his people where to take their votes.  