The nomination of Siaya Count Governor Cornel Rasanga has been nullified by a tribunal that ruled that the primaries were not free and fair. The Political Parties Disputes Tribunal on Friday evening directed that the exercise be repeated within 72 hours. The nomination of Mr Rasanga was petitioned by a voter, Mr Jeconia Ogutu. Mr Rasanga was on Thursday cleared to contest in the August elections by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries (IEBC). In the primaries, the governor competed against Rarieda MP Nicolas Gumbo and other candidates. CLEARED Mr Gumbo lost the primaries and sought to seek election for the governor seat as an independent candidate. He has since been cleared by the electoral agency. The tribunal directed ODM to use its party machinery to nominate a candidate. Meanwhile, the tribunal cleared Kajiado East MP Peris Tobiko to vie for the seat on Jubilee Party ticket. Tribunal Chairman Kyalo Mbobu vacated the orders issued on May 31 restraining Ms Tobiko from presenting her nomination certificate to IEBC after the complaint was withdrawn by Kajiado County Woman Representative Mary Seneta. Seeking to be allowed to withdraw the complaint, Ms Seneta said she decided to drop the complaint for the sake of unity in the Jubilee Party. In her petition, Ms Seneta had alleged the party primaries were not free and fair. SUMMON In another case, Ms Judith Pareno, the ODM elections board director has been summoned by High Court over Muhoroni primaries won by sitting MP James K’Oyoo. High Court Judge Lady Justice Jessie Lessit ordered Ms Pareno to appear before her on June 6 to explain why ODM has not complied with orders that it tabulates the results of the primaries from all the polling stations in the constituency. Justice Lessit had cancelled the certificate issued to Mr K’Oyoo by ODM after the April 26 primaries. The court then ordered ODM to tabulate all the results and declare a winner between Prof Ayiecho Olweny and Mr K’Oyoo. Lawyers James Mwamu and Isaiah Munje told the judge that Prof Olweny had won the primaries by garnering 22,967 votes while Mr K’Oyoo got 12,333 votes.  