Giants St Anthony’s Secondary and Kakamega High School battled to a barren draw in the opening match of the football Under-16 as the National Secondary Schools Term Two A Games got underway at Shanzu Teachers College on Tuesday. In the girls’ category, Nyakach girls from Nyanza walloped Utithi Secondary from Eastern 5-0 in their opening pool A match at the same venue. Defending champions St Anthony’s enjoyed much possession against the “Green Commandos” but could not find a way for the opener. Rama Salim and Lucas Mwendwa twice had open chances inside the first 15 minutes of the game but had their efforts thwarted by the hawk-eyed Kakamega goalkeeper Felix Liganda. The Green Commandos had their fair share of chances particularly in the second half when they literally camped at their opponents’ goal but could not break through with Kevin Tom and James Kitili denied by the crossbar. "We wasted several scoring chances especially in the first half when my boys were very tense but they later calmed down when. It was a bit late," St Anthony coach Peter Mayoyo said after the match. Ramisi Secondary from Coast edged out Garissa High School 1-0 with Abdullah Mikidadi scoring the lone goal in the other Pool A match. The high scoring girls match saw Nyakach girls grab the match opener in the second minute through Sylvia Nabwire before Brenda Keita added the second two minutes later. Other scorers for Nyakach were Landline Aoko, Molly Atieno and Radhia Mukanga. The other girls group A match saw defending champions Wiyeta from Rift Valley and Kwale Girls (Coast) share the spoils after battling to a 2-2 draw. Monica Etoto and Jentik Chikaywa scored for Wiyeta while Mila Omondi and Catherine Aringo found the net for Kwale. FIXTURES Wednesday Football boys Under 16 11.00am B-Kisumu Day v Passenga, Upper Hill v Isiolo 3.30pm A-Garrisa High v St Anthony, Ramisi v Kakamega High. Girls Under 16 9.00am B-Olympic v Waa Girls, Jabini v Chebukaka 2.00pm A-Utithi v Chebukaka, Wiyeta v Nyakach   Kaya Tiwi made clear their intentions of retaining the title they won last year in Embu.