The sensation over free secondary education during the recent Jubilee and Nasa election campaigns demonstrates how important education is as a tool for political, social and economic empowerment. There is much ado about nothing, though, in the public reaction to President Uhuru Kenyatta’s promise that the Jubilee government, if or when re-elected in the August 8 General Election, will offer universal free secondary education in the next three years. National Super Alliance’s presidential candidate Raila Odinga promises free secondary education by September, if elected. The real dimensions of the emerging debate and how they integrate with the education sector reforms are not entirely clear. The first is what really constitutes free secondary education, and where Jubilee plans to make additional input or where Nasa sees gaps. Students in public day and boarding secondary schools do not pay tuition fees. Parents finance the cost of boarding and other expenses such as uniforms. The free day secondary education was implemented in 2008 following the success of the free primary education in 2003. Some 1.2 million children who were out of school or unable to join due to lack of fees enrolled during the first year. Enrolment in secondary schools increased, but not so significantly, when the free day education was introduced. SCHOOL TRANSITION The second dimension is the transition from primary to secondary school. The 2017 Economic Survey indicates that 10.3 million children were enrolled in 33,202 primary schools last year. The gross enrolment rate was 104.1 per cent. However, there is over-enrolment in some areas and under-enrolment in others. The situation in secondary schools was much less colourful. According to the survey, total secondary school enrolment last year was 2.7 million students in 9,942 schools and the gross enrolment rate was 66.7 per cent. It means that 33.3 per cent of eligible children were not in secondary school. Ideally, Jubilee and Nasa should focus their attention on the gap in the transition from primary to secondary education—why a third of the children fail to join secondary school. The biggest problem is that while primary school facilities have expanded, investment in secondary schools has been much slower, particularly for boarding. Last year, 942,021 candidates sat the Kenya Certificate of Primary Education examination, but 759,603 or 80.6 per cent joined Form One. This was remarkable, showing the progress towards achieving universal free secondary education. However, the success has come at a cost to schools whose facilities have been stretched to the limit. This needs to be addressed through investment in public schools and stimulating private investments in secondary education—either by private investors or through public-private partnerships. Private investors need incentives and sustainable returns to put their money in the education. Perhaps, there is a reason why more money is invested in churches, especially during campaign seasons, than in schools. EDUCATION QUALITY The other critical issue is the quality of education. Several studies have shown that half of primary school children lack basic numeracy and literacy skills. The problem is attributed to several factors, including the burden to teachers forced to handle far more pupils than they ideally should. The numbers, though, seem to be coming down to manageable levels as the primary school pupil–to–teacher ratio improved to 40:1 last year. The more significant problem is teacher absenteeism. While the government loses money by paying teachers who are not working, children suffer because learning is ineffective. These are hard issues, particularly where the government has to deal with powerful teachers’ unions, corruption and vested interests that disrupt the school system and compromise the future of our children.  Peter Warutere is a director at Mashariki Communications. pwarutere@gmail.com  