Kenya Simbas retained the Elgon Cup after edging out Uganda Cranes 56-51 on aggregate after the teams drew 33-33 in the second leg at RFUEA Grounds on Saturday. The result was however a major blow to Kenya's hopes of winning the Rugby Africa Cup Division 1A championships now christened Gold Cup. Kenya had beaten Uganda 23-18 in the first leg in Kampala a fortnight ago. Simbas, who were trailing 33-26 with a minute ago, benefited from a last minute penalty try to draw level and secure the Elgon Cup. The match also acted as as the opening round of the Africa Gold Cup, a qualifier for the 2019 Rugby World Cup in Japan. Both teams are now on a point in the six-team competition. Simbas coach Jerome Paarwater admitted his charges need to work hard if they are to reach the World Cup. "We have got to improve on our defensive shape and scrums in the coming matches," the coach said. Simbas captain Darwin Mukidza put in another impressive display with three penalty conversions while Jacob Ojee scored two tries. Newcastle Falcons back-row Joshua Chisanga was fouled as he was about to score a try in the last minute of the match. Uganda's Philip Wokorach, who plays for Kabras Sugar in Kenya, was voted man of the match after kicking five penalty conversions. "We pushed them all the way and we were unlucky not to win. We will build on this result in our next match," Wokorach said. The hosts were quick off the blocks early on pinning down the visitors back. However, Simbas could not find the way past a steel-walled Uganda defence. Uganda eventually settled and took the lead through Wokorach's penalty. The Cranes grew in confidence and would carve open the Simbas defence minutes later. Wokorach won the ball brilliantly before he exchanged passes with Mathias Ochwo and the latter set up Charles Uhuru who breezed through to score the try for a 8-0 lead. Wokorach dully converted for a 10-0 leaving the hosts stunned. However, buoyed by a large home crowd, Simbas finally got going as Mukidza led the resurgence. The KCB player kicked in a penalty conversion after Moses Amusala was impeded. Simbas played some nice passes on the left wing and Ojee outpaced the Ugandans to power home the try. The resulting conversion was unsuccessful leaving the hosts 10-8 down. Moses Amusala scrambled home a try minutes later as Simbas took the lead for the first time in the match. Cranes were not to be denied as Wokorach kicked in another penalty try but Mukidza had the last laugh in the half as he kicked in another penalty conversion for a 16-13 lead at the breather.  