Meru Senator Kiraitu Murungi has downplayed Nasa s influence in Meru, saying the large crowds witnessed on Saturday during a rally cannot translate into votes.Mr Murungi has also asked Governor Peter Munya to come clean on his support for the National Super Alliance ahead of President Uhuru Kenyatta s visit next weekend.This is after Nasa presidential candidate Raila Odinga and co-principal Moses Wetang ula endorsed re-election of Mr Munya during their rallies.Mr Murungi said Nasa is always welcome to campaign in the region but warned that they would only manage to get 0.1 per cent of the votes. Every time Nasa leaders come to Meru they have been attracting large crowds but this cannot translate into votes. We are not in any way worried by the Nasa leaders reception. Meru is a Jubilee stronghold and Mr Kenyatta will get 99.9 per cent of the votes, Mr Murungi said.The Jubilee gubernatorial candidate said the Meru people turn out in large numbers during Mr Odinga s meetings for entertainment .JUBILEE STRONG No matter how many times they come to campaign in Meru, they will not dent the Jubilee votes during the August election. I dare them to compare their crowds with President Kenyatta s when he visits this week, he said.Senator Murungi, who is seeking to unseat Mr Munya as Meru governor, said the Nasa leaders statements confirm that the governor is at the heart of the opposition coalition.This is despite constant statements by the Party of National Unity (PNU) leader asserting that he supports the re-election of President Kenyatta.READ: PNU supports UhuruDuring the Nasa visit, Mr Odinga warmed up the crowd with his football commentating theatrics in a match where Mr Munya was a player in the Nasa team.Despite them being accompanied by the Wiper gubernatorial candidate Winnie Kaburu, Mr Wetang ula drummed support for Governor Munya saying he is hardworking.SUPPORT MUNYAMr Wetang ula rallied the crowd in Maua, Mutuati and Laare against Senator Murungi who is vying on a Jubilee ticket. I am sending you with greetings to my learned friend Governor Munya. He is hardworking and is part of the struggle to liberate this country. We are saying Kiraitu out and Munya in, Mr Wetang ula said.Speaking to the Nation by phone, Mr Murungi claimed Mr Munya facilitated the Nasa rallies in Meru leading to the endorsement. The endorsement Mr Munya got from the Nasa leaders confirms our earlier statements that the Meru governor is a Nasa mole. His status in Nasa is the same as that of Bomet Governor Isaac Ruto only that he doesn t have the courage to come out in public, Mr Murungi said.However, Mr Munya has maintained PNU was among the first parties to endorse the President saying he is being fought due to his political differences with Deputy President William Ruto.He said the President will launch various road projects and deliver goodies for coffee, dairy and miraa farmers in Meru. email print email print The governor said the community had helped other communities ascend to power.