IN DAR ES SALAAM Gor Mahia on Thursday beat Nakuru AllStars 2-0 in the SportPesa Super Cup semi-final to set up a titanic clash with arch-rivals AFC Leopards in the final set for Sunday at Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam. Ugandan-born Rwandese forward Meddie Kagere scored the opener at the stroke of halftime before George ‘Blackberry’ Odhiambo doubled their lead five minutes from time to give Gor a shot at the Sh3 million winners’ prize money and a possible ticket to play to play English side Everton on July 13 in Dar es Salaam. The two Kenyan giants, who have 28 league titles between them with Gor commanding the lion's share of 15, will renew their rivalry in the final in Dar es Salaam on Sunday, some 900km away from their Nyayo Stadium home ground in Nairobi. “It was a tough match but we kept on pushing hoping to get the opener. We didn’t underrate them because we saw what they had done earlier on,” Gor assistant coach Zedekiah Otieno said after the match. “I am happy with the victory which sends us to the final.” AllStars coach George Maina he rued loss of concentration for the loss. “We took time to settle in the match unlike it was the case against Simba. I was surprised my boys were under tension playing Gor when they had played their hearts out against Simba. That loss of concentration and naivety cost us,” Maina said. Otieno made one change in the team that beat Jang’ombe 2-0 in Tuesday quarter-final, resting Mike Simiyu for George Odhiambo. After a cagey opening minutes, Timothy Otieno, who was partnering Kagere upfront, failed to beat AllStars goalkeeper Martin Lule in the 27th minute, fluffing his lines in front of goal after he was released by Kenneth Muguna. Maina’s side were dealt with an injury blow on the 31st minute after Thomas Wainaina was stretchered off the pitch with Rwandan Nturukundo Baraka replacing him. A confident Gor Mahia were building from the back whilst closing down AllStars’ attacks. Odhiambo earned a free kick on the 35th minute but Muguna was denied by Lule. AllStars, eager to get into their first final in decades, went close through Nturukundo, who latched onto Teddy Siwa’s cross but failed to beat Peter Odhiambo in Gor Mahia’s goal. Odhiambo’s cross at the stroke of half-time caught the AllStars backline napping as Kagere rose high to head home the opener for a 1-0 lead at the break. AllStars, all out in attack in the second half, had Dennis Nandwa and Nturukundo missing the target with their attempts. Gor introduced three substitutes in a span of five minutes, starting with Amos Nondi at the hour mark while Anthony Mbugua and Oliver Maloba followed him. Innocent Wafula, Francis Kahata and Kagere gave way as Otieno sought to close out the match. It paid off in the 85th minute, as Maloba charged down the left flank, attempted to score but was denied by the woodwork before Nondi picked the rebound to set up Odhiambo - who slotted home.   Goalkeeper Ian Otieno converted the winning penalty.