Wiper supporters in Machakos have reacted with fury to the disqualification of Wavinya Ndeti as the party’s governorship candidate as Ms Ndeti said her lawyers are launching an appeal. Ms Ndeti named Senator Johnson Muthama, Governor Alfred Mutua and Wamunyu Ward MCA Kyalo Kyuli as the people behind her troubles and exuded confidence that she will overcome the hurdles. "I urge my supporters to remain calm. They should not be worried because I am not worried," said Ms Ndeti. Ms Ndeti insisted that she is not a member of two parties. THE TRUTH "When I was cleared by the IEBC they checked which party I belonged to. I did not belong to two parties. That is the truth and the truth will eventually prevail," said Ms Ndeti by phone. She said a case had been filed earlier challenging her membership in Wiper party but had since been overtaken by events. Ms Ndeti said she is a life member of the Wiper party. Ms Ndeti called on her supporters to remain calm as she appeals the IEBC decision. Machakos residents interviewed by the Nation accused Governor Mutua and Senator Muthama of frustrating Ms Ndeti's bid and vowed not to vote for any of the other governorship candidates. They threatened to hold demonstrations to ensure Ms Ndeti is on the ballot. "We are saddened by the decision and we advise Wiper to appeal as we fully support Wavinya Ndeti,” said Charles Kang'ethe, a resident of Yatta constituency. DISAPPOINTED Anthony Ngesa, a resident of Mwala constituency, said he was disappointed by the ruling, insisting that Ms Ndeti had twice won in the Wiper nominations and was headed to becoming the next governor of Machakos County. Yatta MP Francis Mwangangi, the Chama Cha Uzalendo Party vice-chairman, confirmed that Ms Ndeti relinquished her membership in the party when she entered into an agreement with Wiper and could thus not be said to belong to two parties. Mr Mwangangi said documents showing the changes were forwarded to the Registrar of Political Parties in time and it was upon the registrar to effect the changes. "As the CCU national vice-chairman, I want to confirm that Ms Wavinya Ndeti resigned as the party leader the moment she signed an agreement with the Wiper party,” said Mr Mwangangi. Mr Mwangangi described Ms Ndeti's disqualification as a political witch-hunt orchestrated by three men against a widow. Mr Mwangangi said it is Wiper party leader Kalonzo Musyoka who is being targeted in the entire scheme. Other candidates in the Machakos race are Dr Mutua (Maendeleo Chap Chap), Bernard Kiala (independent) and Lemmi Muia (Jubilee Party).   Commission cancels Ndeti's nomination for Machakos governor race.