Mosoriot Teachers College is set to be converted into a campus of the proposed Koitalel Samoei University College in Nandi County, marking an end to an institution that has existed since 1960. The teachers college was started to offer quality training for teachers in the country, with J. Rodgers as its first chairman, serving from 1960-61. Its vision has been to sustain the training of competent, qualified and effective teachers using modern techniques in order to satisfy dynamic societal needs and expectations for the 21st century. The institution will join Siriba Teachers College, now Maseno University, and Kenya Science Teachers College, now a campus of the University of Nairobi, among others, that have been upgraded from teachers' training colleges to universities. A report by the Commission for University Education (CUE) has recommended the transfer Mosoriot TTC land and facilities to the University of Nairobi to be held in trust and provide a requisite range of facilities, especially lecture rooms, administration and academic offices. UNIVERSITY OF NAIROBI “It has also to develop a master plan for the proposed university college, showing a time line plan on how the land and facilities of the TTC would be converted in favour of the proposed university college,” states the report submitted to Education Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i and signed by CUE chairman Chacha Nyaigotti-Chacha. According to the report dated June 8, the University of Nairobi has been tasked by the Ministry of Education to be the mentoring university of the proposed institution. UoN is also required to finalise the land transfer process and obtain concurrence from the Ministry of Education on the alienation of the land. The campus, which starts off as a constituent college of the University of Nairobi, will be constructed at a cost of Sh3.4 billion. “It will start with a school of law signifying that Koitalel stood for justice and died fighting for freedom,” said Prof Peter Ngau, the principal of the College of Architecture and Engineering. ECONOMY Prof Ngau said the college will then establish a sports academy to serve the region, which is the designated home of athletics champions. The college will then add a school of business to contribute to the shaping of the country’s future and contributing to Vision 2030, said Prof Ngau during the launch that was presided over by President Uhuru Kenyatta. The number of universities has doubled from 35 in 2012 to 70 last year and the number of students enrolled in universities has increased from over 361,379 in 2012 to over 564,507 last year.   Over 10,000 students to be enrol once the university is completed.