The altercation between the government and the Opposition over the food crisis is not helping anybody. Critical questions are not being addressed as politics takes centre stage. Yet here is a crisis that must be resolved quickly and decisively. HUNGER First, it must be appreciated that the government has tried to make maize flour available and at an affordable cost. However, the supply and distribution are wanting and the whole strategy unsustainable. A few bales of flour are distributed to sellers, which are quickly snapped up by panic-stricken buyers. Even so, the scramble for maize meal paints a grim picture of a country ravaged by hunger and unable to feed its citizens. POLICIES For a country that relies on agriculture for its upkeep, inability to produce adequate food and hence the compulsion to import is an indictment of the leadership. Second, the shortages of maize flour, sugar and milk, among others, underpin structural and policy failures. Vicious cartels and predatory business people lie behind the scenes and often precipitate crises to make a killing. DROUGHTBroadly, it has been acknowledged that the food crisis was occasioned by a long period of drought last year and not only in Kenya, but also across the eastern and central Africa. But the problem was the inability to respond appropriately. The government bungled the matter and must accept blame. The sequence of events characterised by denials, blame game and procrastination undermined quick responses. It is questionable, for example, to import maize from Mexico, if that is the true origin, when it can be cheaply and quickly sourced from neighbouring countries. SUSTAINABLE STRATEGIESThe government must secure adequate supplies of maize, sugar and milk. It must involve the relevant players to ensure sustainability; for it is not the business of government to get fully involved in commodity trade. More fundamentally, we need long-term measures to insulate the country against the recurrence of such predictable misfortunes. Let the government and the Opposition provide the solution and spare us constant bickering over a national crisis.  