We were at the University of Nairobi Open Day, held on Thursday through Saturday last week at the university. Faculties of the university showcased their various academic and training programmes in a successful event that saw hundreds of high school students converge at the institution to learn more about the courses they wished to study after completing their secondary education. The three-day event, organised in line with this year’s theme “Quality and Innovative Education to Sustain Industrial Growth”, allowed parents and prospective students to enquire about courses on offer in the university’s colleges. The Vice Chancellor, Professor Peter Mbithi, lauded the partnership with the Daily Nation and myNetwork, saying it would go a long way to prepare learners for the cutthroat demands of the job market.   SKILLS FOR THE MARKETPLACE “Collaborations such as this one between the university and the various industries aim at creating harmony between academics and the technicalities of the job market. We hope that our students will gather as much information as they need in readiness for life after graduation,” Professor Mbithi said as he officially opened the ceremony at the main campus in Nairobi. MyNetwork’s stand at the event was full of activity, with the university’s students and other guests seeking to learn about the product. This magazine addresses matters of interest to the youth, such as education, scholarship and internship opportunities, careers and entertainment. The Director of the Centre for Translation and Interpretation in the university, Professor Jayne Mutiga, invited applicants to apply for Masters’ scholarships offered by the university under the Pan African Masters Consortium in Translation and Interpretation (PAMCIT) in collaboration with the European Commission. “Courses offered in this centre equip learners with skills to work in international and regional markets that require translation and interpretation services. This course is taught in the six UN languages, and trainees are awarded UN-approved certification.” Interested candidates may apply by visiting the university’s website.  