Kajiado County Commissioner Harsama Kello has allayed fears that non locals will be ejected from the region, after leaflets were circulated warning them to leave before August 8. Mr Kello on Sunday assured the residents that the government will protect lives and property of those who have invested and settled in the county. Mr Kello was reacting to leaflets spread in urban areas of Kajiado County and which have spread fear and panic among non-Maasais who are being asked to leave before Election Day. The leaflets, written in Kiswahili are warning members of four tribes to leave of face unspecified consequences. “Onyo!!! Onyo!!! Onyo!!! ….. wote mwatakiwa kuhama Kajiado County kuamkia usiku wa 7/8/2017 vile halivyoamrisha Rais mtarajiwa Raila Amolo Odinga kwenye kikao na viongozi wa kimaasai kajiado tarehe 14/6/2017. Puuza ilani hii na utajuta cha mtema kuni (Warning!! Warning!!...all are required to leave Kajiado County on the eve of 7/8/2017 just like incoming President Raila Amolo Odinga said in a meeting Maasai leaders in Kajiado on 14/6/2017. Ignore this warning and you will face consequences),” says the leaflets. VIGILANT Authors of the leaflets attribute their warning to a directive allegedly given by National Super Alliance (Nasa) Presidential candidate Raila Odinga on Thursday June 14 in Iloodokilani, Kajiado West. During that event, Mr Odinga talked about land in Kajiado, remarks being interpreted as having asked non-Maasais not to encroach on Maasailand. “We are investigating this issue and we will take very serious action against anyone found to be writing these leaflets,” said Mr Kello on phone. “I also assure any person who has registered to vote in Kajiado not to fear as they wait to cast their votes in August as we shall be very vigilant,” he added. Kajiado has a huge population of non-Maasais who have bought property and settled in the urban centres of Ngong, Rongai, Kitengela and Kiserian.   Mr Duale demanded that Mr Odinga issues an apology over his remarks.