Kwale County has overtaken Mombasa and Kilifi, becoming the new Coast secondary schools sports powerhouse if recent championships are anything to go by. During the just-concluded Coast schools Term Two ‘B’ games in Kilifi, Kwale swept the boards, winning everything on offer in the ball games, save for girls’ volleyball title and stealing the show in racquet games which were previously the reserve of Mombasa and Taita Taveta counties. At the the games held in Kilifi, Kwale country won boys’ and girls’ football titles, courtesy of Ramisi Secondary and Kwale Girls, and went ahead to win boys’ volleyball title through Waa Boys. Only the girls’ volleyball title slipped through their fingers, going the opposite direction after St John’s Girls Kaloleni beat Kwale Girls in the final. Titles in racquet games were evenly distributed, with Kwale County shining in table tennis and badminton, while Taita Taveta, through Mwakitawa Girls, won lawn tennis title. The scenario was almost repeated in Term Two ‘A’ games as Kwale won netball, under-16 boys’ and girls’ football and rugby sevens titles, courtesy of Kaya Tiwi Secondary, Ramisi Secondary and Kwale Girls and Kaya Tiwi rugby sevens respectively, with Taita Taveta winning girls’ handball (White House Academy) while Barani Secondary won Kilifi the boys’ handball. EVENLY DISTRIBUTED It was only in Term One games that the titles were evenly distributed across the counties in Coast region. While Kaya Tiwi Girls won girls’ basketball title and went on to win national title, Aga Khan Academy Mombasa were crowned boys’ basketball champions, Bura Girls Taita took girls’ hockey title while Shimo la Tewa of Mombasa won boys’ hockey. Kwale secondary schools sports association chairman, Juma Bora, attributes this success to teamwork, dedication by the games teachers and support from the school heads whom he says have invested heavily in the games while also keeping a close eye on academics. Coast secondary schools sports chairman Rodgers Siasa Mwafungo is based in Kwale and he has given the teams extra motivation to work hard, Bora says of the Waa Boys High School principal who is also the national secondary schools vice chairman. “We have been doing well as a county in sports but we have done an excellent job this year which makes me feel that dominating the National school games can also be achievable,” he said. According to Bora, the fact that only Kaya Tiwi has a national title means a lot more needs to be done.   The girls’ finals was equally competitive.