What does your job entail? Guiding young people with their future, especially career choices, and then assisting them with finding an appropriate course and university in Australia. Administratively, the financial operations of the business, liaising with our partner universities in Australia, liaising with various government agencies, and organising the Australian University Expos in Kenya. From your experience of guiding young people into various career paths, what would you say leads to misinformation, hence wrong career choices? Getting advice from their peers – youth tend to listen to their peers, who lack wisdom when it comes to career advice. Also parents, who insist that their child follow traditional careers such as medicine, law or engineering. At the age of 18, most people don’t know what they want to do. They need to explore, and be open-minded. The great thing with education is that you can always change your career path at a later stage if need be. Research shows that the average person will hold between 12-15 different jobs before they turn 40, and many of these careers do not exist today. How can someone seeking a school or seeking to identify their career path or an international school, reach out to your organisation? What does it take for someone to become affiliated to your organisation? Or get help from your organisation? Very easy. Come in and see us at our offices in Westlands, send us an email or engage with us through social media such as Facebook or WhatsApp. We are here to help all students, and ensure that they are given the right advice. Many times it is not what they want to hear, but it is the truth. How can higher education institutions in Kenya adjust to ensure that the process of transition from education gained in school and student interests and their potential are properly aligned? They need to transform and modernise. Education is constantly evolving, as are market needs, and unfortunately, most universities are unable to keep up with these needs. Concentrate on fewer courses and do them well. Do you have a specific target population or are your services and programs open to everyone? Our services are open to all. We have students whose parents are farmers, run small business, or work with multinationals. Unfortunately, we can only assist students who have the financial means to study in Australia, as scholarships are very limited and extremely competitive. What advice would you give to young people who just completed their undergraduate and are stuck with papers that they do not know what to do with? What is your advice on adding value to their papers? A degree is nothing without experience. Kenya’s unemployment rate is high, and there are hundreds of people applying for the same job. What will make you stand out? Asking for a high salary automatically rules you out. Kenya is crying out for people with trade qualifications – we are too white collar heavy. Can you get a trade qualification that will help you get employment, or even become self-employed? You need to start somewhere. What is the greatest challenge of your job? Having to keep on hearing students  being misled by family and friends in Australia. They are told that they can enrol for a diploma course when they already have a degree, or to change their career as it leads to employment in Australia, when they cannot because they are academically ineligible. We get students with a Masters asking to enrol in a Certificate course. I explain to them that this is like going back to primary school and telling the headmaster they wish to enrol for KCPE even though they have completed their KCSE, Bachelors and Masters. What informational journals or websites would you recommend for someone seeking information about studying in Australia (or abroad)? Visit the university websites – they provide a wealth of information. Our office, with 20 years’ experience, can help you get to the right information very quickly and efficiently. What three things do you need to be successful at this job? Be willing to learn – I am continually reading, listening and absorbing. Accept change. Our relationships at the universities and government agencies are constantly changing, as are regulations and processes. Remember that what you are doing is life-changing. Advice you give is going to affect a person’s life forever, so always make sure you are honest and empathetic. Was there a specific thing that drew you to this career? I fell into it by accident. My background is property, so I have learned on the job. I went to school in Australia, where I also grew up. What did you fail at when you were starting your career and how did you deal with this? Many things. In any career, you will constantly face challenges, many of which can feel like failures. Ask for help, and try and have good mentors you can turn to for advice and guidance. Did you get the job of your dreams? I would say yes. I meet new people all the time, get to help people drastically change their lives, and get to travel. Every day is interesting and very different from the previous one.  