It was 2am on a Sunday. I was dead asleep and the phone must have vibrated a few times before I finally answered it. You are refusing to pick my call and my husband is dying! came a desperate voice of a woman. What s the problem, I asked. I could hear groans of a male voice in the background. His thing is stuck, it is swollen and he is in severe pain, she shouted. What thing and where is it stuck? I instinctively shouted back.The next thing she said was that they were on the way to the Sexology Clinic and they expected me to be there in 15 minutes. I grudgingly woke up, dressed and drove to the clinic. Along the way, I imagined the possible problems the couple could have been having.COCK RINGYou see, sexology is one branch of medicine that rarely has emergencies. The core business of the specialty is to help people live a fulfilling sexual life by treating sex problems, promoting intimacy and attending to relationship problems.The couple was already in the clinic when I arrived. The man was on a stretcher and writhing in pain. The woman stood next to him weeping. At least he is not stuck inside her! I mumbled to myself as I took a quick medical history. I concurrently did my physical examination and alas! The man had a metallic ring around the base of his penis, which was trapping his erect penis and swollen testicles. The genitals were swollen and inflamed. The ring is called a cock ring in sexology.A cock ring is a devise used to treat erectile dysfunction. Some people, however, use it to increase sexual pleasure. The physiology behind using a cock ring is that erection is caused by accumulation of blood in the penis. Erection fades off when the blood flows out of the penis.The cock ring traps blood and holds it in the penis so that the erection does not cease. As such, it makes the erection strong and prolongs its duration. That way, people with weak erections can enjoy a firm one. For men without erectile dysfunction, it is the prolongation of the erection and the apparent increased excitement of using the gadget that makes them go for it.WHY ARE YOU USING A COCK RING? So why are you using a cock ring? I asked the man, as I examined whether the ring was removable. It was totally stuck and the tissues of the penis and testicles were already getting damaged due to pressure.I digress. If you have to use a cock ring without a doctor s prescription, always look for an elastic one. There are those made of latex or malleable rubber, which do not lead to complications that this client was having. A rigid cock ring made of metal or plastic can totally damage your genitals. Getting the right size is difficult and a wrong size ends up strangulating these vital organs. The problem is that the ring is fixed when there is no erection or when the erection is weak then when it causes enlargement of the penis, the organ gets stuck.Another problem is that a cock ring should never be worn for more than 30 minutes. My client had it for close to one hour before the complication arose. The unfortunate bit is that he was not using the ring to treat erectile dysfunction. He wanted to get more pleasure. He bought the ring while travelling abroad after being convinced by a salesperson in an adults shop that he could use it to enjoy sex more. The only way to treat the problem was to cut the ring. It could not be pulled out. And this led to our second problem: hospitals do not keep tools for cutting tough metals. Those are only found in workshops.After fumbling around with scissors and other medical equipment to cut the ring unsuccessfully, I called my mechanic to get me his tools. It was heading to 4 am when he arrived with an assortment of tools. We embarked on business.At exactly 4.07am, the ring came out. The genitals were bruised from the mechanic s tools and swollen and inflamed from the effect of the strangulation by the cock ring. The gentleman was admitted for further care. At this point it was impossible to say if the organs would ever get back to normal functioning.Three days later, he was out of the ward. There was no more swelling and the bruises were healing well. We were, however, unable to reassure him of normal sexual function because it takes time to know if such strangulation has killed some nerves or completely damaged blood vessels.My lesson from the experience was that before one plays around with important organs such as the genitals, it is important to consult a doctor. You not only avoid embarrassing situations but also preserve these valuable treasures of life. email print email print