President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto on Monday evening stepped up their bid for re-election by citing their achievements as  they accused the Opposition of “copying” them. During a session preceding the official launch of the Jubilee manifesto, the two leaders argued that they had achieved a lot within a short period. “We should be happy with what we have achieved. We need to work harder for what lies ahead of us,” said Mr Kenyatta. “There are many things they said we can’t accomplish, which we have. I am sure if given time, there is more we can accomplish.” DEFENDING RECORD The President was defending his record, citing Huduma centres, free maternity healthcare, regional integration and improving relations with the outside world. “You were told that if you elect us, the world will reject us. Today, people from various countries want to visit Kenya. There is no country that has refused to accommodate a Kenyan president,” he argued, referring to the image issues surrounding their cases at the International Criminal Court.    “This is a government that works for the people. We also work with the people. We do so because at the end of the day this country belongs to 45 million people.” OUTLINED ACHIEVEMENTS Before the launch of the manifesto, the two leaders and Cabinet Secretaries engaged the audience when they outlined their achievements over the past four and-a-half years. Foreign CS Amina Mohamed and her counterparts Aden Mohamed (Industrialisation) and Joe Mucheru (ICT) presented their figures, arguing for the Jubilee Party. President Kenyatta relied on the ministers to tell the story of the achievements of the Jubilee administration. Ms Mohamed described Kenya’s global picture as one that could only get better. ESSENTIAL CONTACTS “We have risen from a country of essential contacts to one that welcomes the President of the United States, His Holiness the Pope and over 50 global leaders,  and hosts 16 summits and 15 major conferences,” said Ms Mohamed. READ: Ruto: Nasa has copied Jubilee pledges She added: “In four-and-a-half years, we have increased foreign investment by 400 per cent.” Mr Mohamed described what he said was opening up of the trade sector and removal of bureaucracy in the conduct of business “We have made it very easy to do business and we have been cited by the World Bank as the third most improved country on ease of doing business,” said Mr Mohamed. SECURE JOBS Mr Mucheru focused on improving Kenya’s IT services. He explained how the government was helping the youth secure jobs through online searches.   But it was always going to be a government-versus-Opposition affair. Mr Ruto was the first to criticise opposition leaders, saying they want to do things like what the government has done. “Our record of the last four- and-a-half years speaks for itself. We are the only political party that has a track record,” he said. “We have a superior plan for our country, which our competitors can only copy and we welcome them to copy because it is the best.” BLAMING OTHERS The President chipped in: “The difference between us and them is, as my brother, the Deputy President has said, is like day and night. The difference is this — there are those who seek leadership by blaming others.” “Then there are those who seek leadership by seeking to correct mistakes and offer hope, opportunity and the future.” The President said he was voted in when some individuals were questioning his ability to lead, especially in light of the case he and his deputy were facing at the International Criminal Court.   MY MESSAGE TO ALL KENYANS