Kenya captain and Tottenham Hotspur midfielder Victor Wanyama has joined Harambee Stars camp ahead of the opening match of the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations qualifiers scheduled for Saturday against Sierra Leone. Wanyama, who arrived in Machakos Saturday afternoon, became the third foreign-based player to arrive in Stars camp after South Africa-based centre backs Brian Mandela and Joseph Okumu who joined the squad on Friday. Striker Michael Olunga are expected in the country Sunday evening from China, together with New York Cosmos defender David Ochieng and left back Eric Ouma from Kolkheti Poti. The Zambia-based trio of Jesse Were, David Owino and Anthony Akumu are expected in the country Monday afternoon as they are currently engaged with Zesco United in the ongoing Caf Confederation Cup group stage games. By Monday evening, Stars coach Stanley Okumbi expects to have all the 35 players in camp for wholesome preparations ahead of the high stakes match. He told Sunday Nation Sport that the first phase of training, which was meant to prepare the local-based players for next year’s African Nations Championship, went well, and that he anticipates another five days of similar preparations with the foreign legion. “I know may people think we have been put in a very easy pool, but you must understand that football has changed. Each game is very important and you must devise a unique but effective strategy for every game. That is not easy,” he said. “I am particularly interested in away games. It will be very good if we get points in all the away games. That will get us in a good position to finish either first or second in our pool and therefore enhance our chances of making it to the Afcon finals,” he said. The national team players have been in residential training in Machakos since Monday last week, and Okumbi is expected to trim the 35-man squad before the team departs for Sierra Leone on Thursday June 8. In the 2019 Afcon qualifiers, Stars are placed in a fairly easy Pool F alongside Sierra Leone, Ghana and Ethiopia. PROVISIONAL SQUAD Goalkeepers: Boniface Oluoch (Gor), James Saruni (Ulinzi), Patrick Matasi (Posta Rangers). Defenders: Brian Mandela (Maritzburg United), Joseph Okumu (Free State Stars), Erick Ouma (Kolkheti Poti), David Ochieng (New York Cosmos), David Odhiambo (Zesco United), Abud Omar (Slavia Sofia), Bolton Omwenga (Kariobangi Sharks), Titus Achesa (Posta Rangers), Jockins Atudo (Posta Rangers), Musa Mohammed (Gor Mahia), Pascal Ogweno (Kariobangi Sharks), Robinson Kamura (AFC Leopards), Simon Mbugua (Posta Rangers), Marlon Tangauzi (Tusker). Midfielders: Victor Wanyama (Tottenham Hotspur), Eric Johanna (Vasalund IF), Ayub Masika Timbe (Beijing Renhe), Anthony Akumu (Zesco United) Ovella Ochieng (Kariobangi Sharks), Daniel Waweru (Ulinzi), Duncan Otieno (AFC Leopards), Ernest Wendo (Gor), Jackson Macharia (Tusker), Samuel Onyango, Stephen Waruru (both Ulinzi), Victor Majid (Chemelil Sugar). Strikers: Michael Olunga (Guizhou Zhicheng), Jesse Were (Zesco United), Boniface Muchiri (Sony Sugar), Daniel Mwaura (Mathare United), Joseph Waithera (Wazito FC), Masita Masuta (Nzoia Sugar), Masoud Juma (Kariobangi Sharks)   For more than four years, all football leagues in Sierra Leone have been on hold.