Kanga High School and Kobala Mixed on Thursday won the boys and girls football titles as the Airtel Rising Stars Nyanza Region Term Two B Games ended at Homa Bay High School. Kobala dethroned champions Nyakach Girls 3-1 on post-match penalties to reclaim the title they won in 2015, as Kanga edged out St Ignatius Loyola Magadi 1-0 in the boys contest thanks to Walid Ouma s strike in extra time. Sengera SDA and St Anne's Sega retained their boys and girls volleyball titles respectively as the three-day showpiece came to a close. Winners will represent the region at next month s National Term Two B Games in Nyeri. This title has eluded us narrowly for the last four years. I'm very happy and I owe this to the principal Michael Ogweno and the school management for the support they gave us throughout the competition, said an emotional Kanga coach Dick Obure. His Magadi counterpart Derrick Oliech praised his lads for a brave fight. The boys played their hearts out. It is not easy for young boys to play two games up to extra time in the same morning. We will come back strong next year. BARDING OUTEarlier, Magadi eliminated East African champions Barding' in the semis. Barding went down 6-5 on post-match penalties after a stalemate. The match was delayed after an appeal against Our Lady Of Mercy Rings Boys, who they were scheduled to play in the semis on Wednesday, went through.Magadi won the appeal bringing to six the number of teams that were suspended during the competition. The Kobala versus Nyakach match was goalless after normal and extra time forcing penalties to decide the encounter. Kobala skipper Yvonne Ogada, Maximiller Robi and Evon Akinyi were spot on in their penalties, while Mercy Akoth scored for Nyakach. An elated Ogada said: We are aiming for the national trophy in Nyeri. That is the only trophy we have not won having lost to Wiyeta in 2015 in the final."Sengera of Kisii County won their two round-robin matches against Chianda of Siaya and Oruba Mixed of Migori to retain the title. Sega laboured to a 3-1 victory over Sengera in the girls final. Sega, who hail from Siaya County, took the first set 25-17. Sengera came back stronger to snatch the second set 22-25 setting the stage for a thrilling finish. With their trophy and national slot at stake, Sega fought to take the third 25-19 then sealed the victory 25-14. Lwak beat Dede 3-1 (23-25, 25-14, 25-23, 25-10) to finish third. email print email print The coaches of the respective teams were also summoned to record statements.