Up to a point, Governor Jackson Mandago’s calculated belligerence toward the so-called immigrant communities of Uasin Gishu is a red herring. It is intended to divert attention from the intra-Kalenjin schism that has emerged in the county as a consequence of the gubernatorial candidacy of businessman Bundotich Zedekiah Kiprop – alias Buzeki. Uasin Gishu’s two main indigenous tribes are the Nandi and the Keiyo. Mandago is Nandi, the majority. Buzeki is Keiyo, who spill over from the neighbouring Elgeyo-Marakwet County. PRIMARY SUPPORT The multi-millionaire aspirant has drawn his primary support from his community, while also eating significantly into Nandi turf. This is Mandago’s undisputed powerbase. Buzeki’s rise has brought out to the surface latent rivalries between the two Kalenjin groups, especially as they play out in Eldoret town. Mandago has never been a favourite with the non-Kalenjin communities of Uasin Gishu, which comprise the Kikuyu, Luhya, Luo and Kisii. The way he once dealt with the street boys of Eldoret by trucking them, in the dead of night, to the Bungoma County border where they were abandoned was not a particularly humane act. Then the rowdy fuss the governor kicked up over the appointment of a non-Kalenjin as Moi University vice-chancellor further alienated him from the non-indigenes. NON-KALENJINS Mandago’s mortal fear is that the non-Kalenjins will combine with the Keiyo to vote for Buzeki, which could tilt the balance. Many of the immigrants like the Luhya and the Luo and the Kisii did not participate in the local Jubilee primaries, but they certainly will vote in the General Election. Indeed, an Eldoret busybody informs me that, on the matter of the gubernatorial race, Mandago has unintentionally worked out a miracle in uniting the immigrant groups, who rarely see eye-to-eye on anything. His bellicose tongue is working grievously against him among the non-indigenes. Buzeki’s image is different. He is urbane, well-spoken, and stresses the message of co-existence. ETHNIC POGROMS For immigrants who have suffered through Uasin Gishu’s successive, politically instigated ethnic pogroms, that is the language they want to hear. Optics matter: He doesn’t carry a rungu the way Mandago does. The non-indigenous minority is always an easy, convenient target for the likes of the incumbent governor. He is particularly riled by the Kikuyu, who he recently insulted as being Mungiki, never mind they belong together in Jubilee, even if only superficially. Not even family ties are off-limits: Voters are being reminded Buzeki’s wife is Kikuyu and that this makes him a “Mt Kenya project”. NOISILY COMPLAINING Initially, Mandago and his allies were noisily complaining that Buzeki was being propelled by Deputy President William Ruto. Lately, though, the “project” narrative has somewhat gotten mixed up after Ruto publicly — but unsuccessfully — pleaded with Buzeki to step down.   Local conspiracy theorists spun tales that the DP was merely going through the motions so as to keep Mandago off his back. More plausibly, I think the DP was acting out of the realisation that the bitter Uasin Gishu contest was spinning out of control in the manner it was polarising the Nandi and Keiyo. JUBILEE CANDIDATE It so happens Mandago is the Jubilee candidate, and that emboldened the DP to take sides. Buzeki lost in the nominations, and went his way as an independent. Whenever Mandago is pressed on the sore subject of inclusivity in his county government — or more accurately the lack of it — he replies that he came into office through a “pact” with the Keiyo. That is why his deputy, Daniel Chemno, is a Keiyo. The governor can’t bear to see Buzeki upset this status quo where the Nandi are primus. The Uasin Gishu contest is arresting because it will give a pointer to 2022. I wonder if the DP has put his mind into this. WATCHING CLOSELY I suspect he has. It is not just about this county which happens to be his home. Everybody — and I mean everybody — from across Kenya is watching closely how his supporters will behave during and after the August election. *** Does Nasa want to imperil the entire General Election over a fabricated report of a meeting between a Dubai businessman and the Head of State? With the very strict timelines IEBC has to work under, common sense requires that all players act very responsibly. Mindless brinkmanship will only put us deeper into the ditch. Warigi is a socio-political commentator gitauwarigi@yahoo.com  