A four-month-old boy in Kuresoi North, Nakuru County is on the verge of losing his legs following the nurses’ strike that enters its third week on Tuesday. The baby, who has severe burns on his legs, has been enduring pain for two weeks since he and his mother were discharged from Nakuru Level Five Hospital. According to his mother, Ms Theresia Wangari, the baby  was injured two months ago when his two-year-old brother lit a match box on the mattress, where he was sleeping. “I was out to buy kales when I heard neighbours screaming. I rushed to find my mattress on fire and my baby burnt,” she said. DISCHARGE LETTER Ms Wangari said she rushed the baby to Molo sub-county Hospital but was sent to the referral hospital. She was admitted with her son, who was kept on close watch until June 8, when she received a discharge letter. “The doctors told me he had to go to theatre, but when the nurses downed their tools, they said they could no longer perform any surgery in the hospital,” she said. READ: Governors freeze fees to nurses' union “My husband is a casual labourer who makes a maximum of Sh200 daily. We can’t afford treatment at a private hospital.    The wounds are severe and on one of the legs, a bone is protruding. Doctors said he needs immediate surgery but I cannot raise money,” she added. STAY AWAY Meanwhile, nurses have vowed to stay away from work  until their pay deal is signed, even as governors threaten to take drastic measures against them. Officials of nurses’ union said they will not return to work until the deal is signed. READ: Nandi nurses call off strike “No amount of intimidations, blackmailing or hoodwinking will water down our resolve to push for the CBA,” said the union’s Secretary-General Seth Panyako. And in Vihiga, nurses condemned the decision by governors to withhold monthly subscription fees to Knun. The nurses, through the union’s branch secretary Caleb Maloba said the move was aimed at crippling the union. Additional reporting by Derick Luvega   Nurses at KNH are spread thin as they are having to deal with large numbers of patients.