Opposition leader Raila Odinga has condemned the London attack that has left seven people dead and 48 other wounded and called on world leaders to unite in war on terrorism. The National Super Alliance (Nasa) presidential candidate, on behalf of his four other co-principals, conveyed their condolences and wished quick recovery for those hurt. “We wish quick recovery to the wounded and urge the nation to stay strong and united in the face of this tragedy,” he said. Six people were killed in a terror attack in the British capital on Saturday when a van smashed into pedestrians on London Bridge before three assailants went on a stabbing spree, the AFP reported. The trio were shot dead by the police at the scene. One more person was confirmed dead hours later rising the death toll to seven. The attack happened late on Saturday night on a London Bridge when terrorists riding on a white van veered into crowds of pedestrians leaving bodies lying in the roadway. A white van is said to have crashed into fencing by Southwark Cathedral before knife wielding men sprinted towards nearby bars packed with revellers enjoying a Saturday night out. The three attackers shot daed by armed officers were wearing what appeared to be explosive vests but were later discovered to be fake. Mr Odinga, in a statement, said that pieced together, the Saturday night attack and that that happened two weeks ago in Manchester, it is a confirmation that terrorists are adopting new ways and strategies of attacks. “They are targeting ordinary people in very ordinary places like sidewalks and restaurants as opposed to imposing landmarks and government or business premises,” he said. He added: “Unfortunately, these developments happen at a time world leaders seem to be pulling in opposite directions on critical matters of the day”. He called on nations to join hands to fight terrorism saying that the world must not retreat. “The attacks should rally the community of nations to pull together and jointly rethink strategies for keeping our nations safe while also addressing the seeds of terrorism,” he said.  