Kisumu Governor Jack Ranguma has officially dropped his deputy Ruth Odinga as his running mate and replaced her with a trade unionist Ephraim Kananga. Mr Ranguma opted for Mr Kananga, who hails from Nyakach Sub County. ODM candidate Prof Anyang’ Nyong’o, whose running mate is Dr Mathews Owili, also comes from the same area. The choice of a running mate from Nyakach by Mr Ranguma and Prof Nyong’o shows how critical and important the clan and Sub County is in the Kisumu governorship contest. The scramble for Nyakach, according to analysts, is because there is no strong contender for the governor’s seat from the area. Nyakach remains one of the most populous in the county and therefore best placed to produce the swing vote. In the last arrangements in 2013, the region never benefitted from any seat in the county. Kano clan produced the current governor Jack Ranguma and the Woman Representative Rose Nyamunga, The Seme clan, on the other hand, clinched the senatorial seat through Prof Nyong’o as well as the Speaker’s seat held by Anne Adul. Mr Kananga is an official of the Kenya National Union of Teachers (Knut) from the larger Nyando Nyakach region. “I never dropped my deputy, she dropped herself and that is why I have replaced her with this youthful teacher,” said Mr Ranguma. “I am ready to campaign alongside ODM candidates because I support Nasa presidential candidate Mr Raila Odinga,” he said. He dispelled rumours of him being in the ODM party list, saying his clearance by IEBC should be a clear message. “I am ready to forego the interest of the independent candidates and instead align myself and support ODM candidates who I feel are good leaders,” said the governor after he was cleared by County Returning Officer John Lorionkou to defend his seat. The governor exuded confidence that he will retain his seat come August 9. Mr Kananga said he is bringing on to the table ‘the faithfulness of the teaching profession that doesn’t condone stealing in any manner.’ He assured the governor of support of all the teachers in the county. “This is the winning team. We have an opportunity to change the wrongs made during the nominations,” said Mr Kananga.  