Joyce Omondi won Video of The Year in 2013’s Groove Awards for her song, Conqueror. She is working on her second album. Joyce is also the communication manager, Financial Sector Deepening, Kenya (FSD).  What was your family’s reaction when you told them that you wanted to pursue music? My musical journey began way back when I was six years old. My father saw my interest in playing the piano and got me one. When I turned eight, I was enrolled for piano classes and got to hone my playing skills. I sang in church, and both my parents were in the choir, so it was a “Glory to God” moment when I told them that I wanted to sing. Nobody saw it coming though. Not them, not me.  Who do you look up to in this profession? I love the musicality of Israel Houghton and how he is able to fuse different genres and create his own amazing sound. I also look up to Cece Winans and Mahalia Buchanan. Now that I don’t have a reggae artist in mind, can I also add that I love reggae beats?  Your songs are all about reverence for God. Would you consider recording a secular song? Say about love? Your question reminds me of a couple of years ago when an aunt suggested that I write Christian love songs because no one was. At that time, I was not even married! I feel that my calling for music is specific to worship, but if the spirit directs me to that genre, who am I to say no?  What attributes have propelled you to where you are today? Having God at the center of my life and surrounding myself with the right people. Someone said, “Show me your friends, and I will show you your future.” As a young person, you need to surround yourself with people who share similar values and those that challenge you to become a better version of you. My motive as a gospel artist to lead people to worship has also been an important attribute. I take authenticity very seriously.  What attributes should a gospel artist possess? You don’t get into this industry to become a superstar, this is about leading people closer to God. To do this, you ought to have a real and strong relationship with God and be accountable to someone who can guide you along the way and correct you when you stray. As a gospel artist, you also need to know the Bible because you cannot pour out to people from an empty cup – you also need to have a heart for people.  Are you saying that gospel artists should not aspire to be popular? Every musician wants people to appreciate their songs and appreciate their gifting, which is okay, however, what really matters is your attitude as you go about it. There is a difference between music that praises God and that which praises oneself. The moment you start singing songs whose only motive is to make you more famous, you have lost your perspective as a gospel artist.  Apart from singing, you have a full-time job. Does one need a side job to make ends meet in this sector? That is a really good question, but I think it is does not necessarily relate to making ends meet, rather, to one’s goals and personal decisions. As much as I love ministering in music, I am also passionate about socio-economic development, hence my job at FSD, which I really enjoy. There are artists who do music full-time and are doing well financially, there are also others who haven’t taken it up as a full time career, and are doing well financially too.  As a singer, do you regard singing as an inborn talent or a skill to be learned? I think some are naturally gifted in it while others have to train their vocal chords. That said, even if you have an inborn talent, you need to exercise your gift to excel in it.  Any important lessons you have learned in your twenties? It is such a critical time, you cannot afford to squander it. At this age, begin to lay down your foundation spiritually, socially, emotionally and financially.  Is there something you wish you knew in your early twenties? That your twenties go by so quickly, that if you do not have a definite plan for your life, you will be surprised to wake up one day and realise that you are in your thirties with nothing to show for it.  You left Rauka (Gospel show on Citizen TV) to study for your master’s degree. How important is education to you? I graduated with a master’s degree in international development from Georgetown University in Washington DC; I also got an honor certificate in International business and Diplomacy. This opened up my mind to the possibilities in our continent and gave me some technical understanding on how to handle socio-economic issues. I can now comfortably hold discussions on economic development and strive to be part of the new renaissance of Sub-Saharan Africa.  How do you strike balance between music, family and your music? With all those roles, sometimes it gets intense. It takes a lot of dedication, commitment and proper time management skills. So far, I think I am doing a good job of it, thanks to support from family. You come across as a conservative person… I am an introvert too, which shows in my dressing. How I dress is mainly influenced by my personality and what I stand for - decency. I also dress for comfort, but also ensure that I look elegant and classy. I believe that everything you do, including dressing, is an outpouring of who you are.  What do you enjoy doing during your downtime? Sometimes I read a book, watch a movie, bake or hang out with friends and family. Other times, I just want to chill out at home doing nothing.   