Prof Isaiah Kindiki, the man leading National Super Alliance (Nasa) campaigns in Tharaka-Nithi County, did not just appear in the Opposition. He says he had a series of meetings with Nasa presidential candidate Raila Odinga before agreeing to undertake the responsibility of “overthrowing” Jubilee in the county. Speaking to the Nation on Sunday, Prof Kindiki, a brother of Senate Majority Leader Kithure Kindiki, said Mr Odinga contacted him in early 2016 while he was still working in South Africa and asked him to help him consolidate votes in Tharaka-Nithi ahead of the August 8 elections. “I did not join the opposition blindly. I am convinced that Mr Odinga is the man to save this country from immense corruption that has pushed citizens into serious poverty,” said Prof Kindiki. GUARD ODINGA'S VOTES He said of the greatest importance is to guard Mr Odinga’s votes and make sure Jubilee does not use Tharaka-Nithi as the centre of rigging. In 2007, Tharaka-Nithi shot into the national limelight after delivering a huge amount of votes to President Mwai Kibaki, who was in a tight race with Mr Odinga. Prof Kindiki, a professor of agriculture, said the Nasa team across the country will not leave anything to chance to ensure Jubilee does not use unorthodox means to get back to power. He said the Nasa campaign technical team, of which he is a member, has come up with the most sophisticated strategy that the Jubilee team cannot catch up with. FOCUS ON THARAKA-NITHI He noted that Tharaka-Nithi is one of the counties that Nasa has given a lot of focus because it has been used before as the last stroke that “kills Mr Odinga’s presidential bid”. He maintained that Nasa will channel campaign resources towards the county in a bid to win the lion’s share of the 216,000 votes. Prof Kindiki, seen by many as opposing his brother Kithure, President Uhuru Kenyatta’s campaign coordinator in the county, has promised to influence various development projects in the county if Mr Odinga wins. “Unlike in the Jubilee government, under the Nasa leadership, we will have various appointments in our county and visible projects such as roads, institutions and irrigation,” he said.  