Nyeri Jubilee Party woman representative candidate Rahab Mukami has challenged fellow politicians to channel their money to income-generating projects for young people in the region instead of misusing them. Speaking while on a campaign tour in Nyeri County on Wednesday, the aspirant decried the habit among some politicians of using young people to disrupt their rivals' meetings and cause mayhem as campaigns for August 8 elections heat up. Pledging piped water for every home in the county if elected, Ms Mukami said politicians should empower youths and work to uplift their living standards. RE-ELECTION Ms Mukami lauded President Uhuru Kenyatta for the Jubilee manifesto launch as she hoped for his re-election. “We have been holding harambees regularly in order to educate our children in high schools. It will now be a big relief since there will be free secondary education from next year,” she said. In her own manifesto, Ms Mukami promises to ensure that every home will have piped water and the elderly in the county will be catered for through the National Health Insurance Fund scheme. “We will ensure residents have a good welfare and basic needs like water and health are catered for. I will work with other leaders to uplift residents’ livelihoods,” Ms Mukami who is seeking to unseat incumbent Priscilla Nyokabi, said. PETTY ISSUES Ms Mukami also lashed out at her rivals saying they were riding on ‘petty personal issues’ and spreading lies to destroy her election chances. She dismissed as unfortunate and propaganda claims by some opponents that her marital home is in Kiambu County and therefore she is not qualified to contest a seat in Nyeri. “I am married in Mukurweini and my aim is to serve Nyeri people. My opponents are dwelling on unnecessary issues that will not improve lives of the residents. Let us compete on policies and on who is capable of offering good leadership,” she stated. Ms Mukami is facing opposition from, among others, Ms Nyokabi, who is defending the seat as an independent candidate after losing in the Jubilee primaries. Others in the race are Cecilia Ndung’u of PNU, Joyce Gachimu of Diligence and Development Party, Jane Mwathe of Narc Kenya and Alice Wangari of Maendeleo Chap Chap.  