Nomination of candidates to Parliament and county assemblies has always been marred by dirty tricks. In 2013, political parties unashamedly picked relatives and friends of their key officials in total disregard of the rules. Failed politicians and relatives of party leaders easily found their way to Parliament and the county assemblies and denied more qualified and deserving candidates a chance to represent, especially the marginalised groups. CRITERIANow, the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission has issued a notice to the parties to submit lists of their nominees by the weekend. For good measure, the commission has spelt out the criteria for identifying the nominees, among others, insisting on equity, inclusivity and diversity. The Constitution and the Elections Act provide guidelines to ensure transparency and fairness. DEMOCRACY Under the old Constitution, when only MPs were nominated, the process was consistently abused. Earlier, it was the preserve of the President, who used the 12 slots to choose friends and supporters and often brought in illiterates who never made any contributions in the House. With the reintroduction of multiparty democracy in the early 1990s and subsequent review of electoral laws, all the parliamentary parties were allowed to nominate MPs on a pro-rata basis, determined by the number of those elected on their respective tickets. INCOMPETENT LEADERS The essence of having nominated MPs is to provide an avenue to take to Parliament people who represent special interests, who otherwise do not get that chance through the ballot because of their difficult circumstances. But this has been abused. This is the time to correct the anomaly. The parties must carry out a proper and transparent selection to determine those to be nominated on their tickets. UPHOLD LAW We do not want a situation where parties present the names of incompetent relatives, friends and loyalists. These are public positions that must be open to a wide section of society and go to the best and deserving. The IEBC must enforce the rules and stop parties from abusing the privilege of nominations.  