Lamu Governor Issa Timamy says he is ready to face off with four opponents in the August 8 General Election. With just 49 days remaining to the elections, the county boss exudes confidence of being re-elected.He says he is the only leader in the history of Lamu County whose development record speaks volumes. ANC CANDIDATE Mr Timamy will be facing his long-time rival Fahim Yassin Twaha of Jubilee, Mr Abdalla Fadhil of the Orange Democratic Movement, Mr Swaleh Salim Imu of Wiper and Party of National Unity s Eliud Ndung u Kinuthia.In 2013, Mr Timamy clinched the governor seat on a United Democratic Front ticket by garnering 19,000 votes against Mr Twaha of The National Alliance who had 17,000.In a recent interview with the Nation, Mr Timamy said Lamu people had decided that he would remain their governor. He will contest on Musalia Mudavadi s Amani National Congress ticket. HEALTH He said the area senator will be Mr Mohamed Hashim (ANC), Ms Shakila Abdalla (Woman rep, Wiper Democratic Movement) while Lamu West and East MPs would be from the Orange party. I am not scared. I have done a lot for this county and that is why my people have decided to stand with me, he said. None of our leaders since independence can be compared to me as far as development is concerned. "I have ensured that residents get some of the best medical services in the country by rehabilitating dispensaries, constructing health centres and upgrading key hospitals, including Mpeketoni and Faza to level four status. King Fahad is now a level five hospital. CORRUPTION Mr Timamy said he had also ensured that Lamu Old Town, Mpeketoni, Kizingitini and Faza had street lights and pavements. However, Mr Twaha says Lamu people have had nothing to celebrate about under Mr Timamy s leadership.The man who was Lamu West MP for 15 years said the county needed a focused leadership and accused the incumbent of dictatorship and corruption.He promises to consult residents before making any major decision. The people of Lamu have been yearning for a leadership that involves them in decision-making. Timamy imposes his will on locals. "Our people will be on the forefront in deciding which projects they want if I become governor, the Jubilee pointman in the county said.TRANSPARENCY Mr Twaha added that Lamu had so far received more than Sh10 billion from the national government but there is nothing to show for such a large amount . Lamu has 100,000 residents. That means every local has received at least Sh100,000. We have not felt this since Timamy took office in 2013, he said. There is a lot of secrecy in his leadership. I will promote accountability and transparency if residents vote for me in August. My administration will be corruption-free. PRIORITY AREAS Mr Fadhil of ODM says his main objective is to revive the county s important industries such as tourism, fishing, agriculture and livestock. I am an expert in tourism and I will revive it and other industries. Lamu has great potential, Mr Fadhil said.For his part, Wiper s Swaleh Imu says he will prioritise education, youth employment, roads, health and general development. Just like Mr Twaha, PNU s Kinuthia has been a bitter critic of the current county administration. He accuses Mr Timamy s government of failing to issue directions on mega projects which will obviously benefit our region .POWER PROJECT He promises to ensure the numerous law suits against projects like the Lamu Port South Sudan Ethiopia Transport corridor, the Sh200 billion coal-fired power plant at Kwasasi and the wind power plant at Baharini in Mpeketoni are withdrawn or dropped for the sake of developing Lamu . We don t know the fate of the coal and wind power plants expected to be set up in Lamu and this is because we do not have a leadership that has a stand on the projects, Mr Kinuthia said. Cases are being filed in courts against such projects every day. The projects are beneficial to the county and that is why I want the people of Lamu to vote for me. email print email print Mr Timamy said Lamu people had decided that he would remain their governor.