Even before the main elections are held on August 8, a row is already brewing over who should be on the list of those to be nominated as MCAs by the Jubilee Party in Nakuru. A group of aspirants is opposed to a list prepared by local leaders. The Nakuru Jubilee aspirants’ caucus, led by their chairman Edwin Lesidai, on Thursday kicked off a storm when they faulted the list, saying the distribution of names was biased and skewed. “The list [has] names of some people who earlier served as nominated MCAs. The list must be re-drafted after proper consultations [by] all party stakeholders,” said Mr Lesidai. FILL 18 SLOTS The Nation learnt that a total of 656 people applied to fill 18 slots of nominated MCAs in the county. The names of 55 people were to be submitted, from which the 18 would be picked. Jubilee Party candidates for governor, Senate, woman representative and constituency seats had been mandated to pick the nominees to represent marginalised groups, youth, women and disabled people. They were required to hold meetings chaired by Lee Kinyanjui, the governor candidate, and agree on the list after wide consultations. MPS DEFEND LIST However, a section of Nakuru MPs have defended the list, saying it is compliant with the guidelines given by the Jubilee Party headquarters. The lawmakers - Samuel Arama (Nakuru Town West) and David Gikaria (Nakuru Town East) - in separate interviews with the Nation, dismissed claims that they had included names of their cronies and relatives on the list. “The list is a clean list and was drafted as per the guidelines issued by the party headquarters. Those complaining are the losers in the recent Jubilee Party primaries who feel they must be nominated,” said Mr Arama. The MP slammed those opposing the list, adding that the applicants who made it to the list were all from Nakuru County and represent marginalised groups, the youth and disabled people. MARGINALISED GROUPS Mr Gikaria, while defending the list, said marginalised groups, including the Ogiek, Somalis and others who live in the cosmopolitan county, were among those proposed. “Those complaining should re-visit the party guidelines about the exercise. “We met as the party candidates from the county (and) consulted before picking the names,” said Mr Gikaria. When contacted, Jubilee Party county secretary Kiplangat Cheruiyot admitted that there were anomalies in the preparation of the list. “The list has created tension as there were no proper consultations. I, however, call upon supporters and party stakeholders to be calm as we hold meetings to deliberate on how to best resolve the stalemate," said Mr Cheruiyot. He said the list does not even accommodate all communities in the cosmopolitan county. Mr Cheruiyot’s name has already been submitted as a nominee to the Senate by Jubilee. The list is supposed to be handed over to the IEBC.  