Two people have been admitted to Lamu hospital in critical condition after they were shot following a scuffle between police and demonstrators in Lamu. Two police officers also sustained injuries after the rowdy youth attacked them with stones outside the Lamu Law courts on Friday. Mohamed Yusuf, 40, and Abdulatif Abdalla, 16, are fighting for their lives at King Fahad hospital in Lamu County. They are said to have been among a group of youth, who attempted to prevent police officers from taking a convict from the court to Hindi prison on Friday evening. During the scuffle, the youth had armed themselves with stones, machetes and clubs and attacked the officers. 20 YEARS IN JAIL Speaking to journalists on Sunday, Lamu County commissioner Joseph Kanyiri said the youth had planned to rescue a convicted drug peddler who had just been handed a 20-year jail sentence by resident magistrate Njeri Thuku. Mr Kanyiri said police had to use force to disperse the rioting youth who were also pelting the security officers with stones. He said police had launched investigation and that those who would be found to be behind the incident would face the law. Mr Kanyiri said his office was aware of some politicians who incited the youth to attack the police. He warned locals against engaging in criminal activities, failure, they would face the law. ATTACKED POLICE “The family of the convict was not satisfied with the court ruling. Instead, they joined hands with a group of youth. “They forced their way into the court and attempted to burn it forcing police to intervene and disperse them,” said Mr Kanyiri. He added: “They also attacked the police using knives and clubs aimed at rescuing the convict. In the process, two people and two officers were injured.” However, the incident has elicited mixed reactions among Lamu residents with human rights activists in the county criticising the police for using excessive force on the protestors instead of arresting them. They called on the Independent Policing Oversight Authority (IPOA) to investigate the matter, saying police infringed on the rights of the protestors.  