National Super Alliance presidential flag-bearer Raila Odinga said he would improve the lives of Kenyans if elected in August. During a campaign tour of Tharaka-Nithi County, Mr Odinga, who was accompanied by his running mate Kalonzo Musyoka and Nasa principals Musalia Mudavadi, Moses Wetang ula and Siaya Senator James Orengo, accused Jubilee government of promoting poverty among Kenyans. Nasa has the solution to the unbearable cost of living that has reduced Kenyans to beggars, Mr Odinga said. PROMISED LAND He accused the Uhuru Kenyatta government of deliberately creating a food crisis, especially this year in order to pretend to provide a solution by donating food . The Orange Democratic Movement leader said projects in Tharaka-Nithi were conceived by the coalition government, for example Mati road. If you vote for Jubilee you will remain in Egypt but if you vote for Nasa we will take you to Canaan, he said. ICC MATTER On education, the opposition leader said once in power he would increase university students loans, adding that learning in primary and secondary schools would be free from September. Mr Wetang ula said Jubilee leaders were seeking sympathy by claiming that Nasa would to revive the International Criminal Court cases against President Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto. He added that it was Mr Ruto who insisted that the case be heard by the ICC. Let Jubilee not mislead Kenyans. These are kicks of a dying horse, the Bungoma senator said. TRIBALISM The sentiments were echoed by Mr Musyoka who said Jubilee leaders are promoting tribal politics. Mr Mudavadi faulted the government for giving county governments little money. We are the brains behind devolution and we will make that a reality by giving counties 45 per cent of the national budget, the ANC chief said. COHESION AGENCY The opposition leaders held rallies in Chuka Town, Ndagani, Chogoria, Magutuni and Kibunga market.Meanwhile, Jubilee wrote a letter to the National Cohesion and Integration Commission, accusing Mr Odinga of incitement. Jubilee Secretary General Raphael Tuju said the remarks made in Kajiado on Tuesday could ignite ethnic tensions in the cosmopolitan county. We urge you to investigate and act immediately. We need an election whose result is beyond reproach, he wrote to NCIC boss Francis ole Kaparo.LAND ISSUE The remarks by Mr Odinga have been shared widely on social media where he is captured reportedly urging locals not to sell land to outsiders. With such comments, Mr Odinga has struck a match. The fire must be extinguished. Nyeri senator Mutahi Kagwe said the remarks were steeped in communism ideology.Additional reporting by Wanjohi Githae email print email print