The World Under-18 Championships dry run will be staged on Saturday at Kenyatta University and Moi International Sports Centre.Joseph Nkaissery, the Cabinet Secretary of State for Interior and Co-ordination of National Government, announced yesterday that the test will go through every active situation from the university to the competition venue to see if they are operational. We shall see if the kitchen is operational and if the rooms are functional with water and electricity running at the athletes village at Kenyatta University, said Nkaiserry adding that the security apparatus will also be tested right at all venues. We are now in event mood and we must show our preparedness. Nkaiserry was speaking at Kasarani upon touring competition venues at Moi International Sports Centre, and training venues and accommodation hostels at Kenyatta University. We are moving towards the right direction and everyone one is working as the clock ticks towards meeting the deadline, said Nkaiserry adding that there will be a great difference when one visits the venues from Monday. Nkaiserry was accompanied by Sports Principal Secretary Kirimi Kaberia, World Under-18 and Local Organising Committee (Loc) Chief Executive Officer Mwangi Muthee and LOC chairman Jackson Tuwei among others top officials from several ministries.Nkaissery noted that even though there has been a delay in delivery of the tartan track to be laid at Kenyatta University from Spain, Mondo Track and Field have acquired another quality track from Mombasa. Nkaissery assured all participants of full security during the five-day event as he invited the world to Kenya.He promised them of the famed Kenya s hospitality enjoyed in a very safe and secure environment. Over 130 countries can come and feel safe here. We are urging the world to come and enjoy the games, said Nkaiserry.Muthee assured that the track will be laid and ready for use at the athletes village before the start of the championships. The remaining work will be completed in time for the event. Work schedules have been adjusted to ensure work goes on round the clock, said Muthee.Muthee said that tickets will go on sale next week at Safaricom shops around the country. A day s ticket will retail at Sh200.He added that students who will prove to Green Africa Foundation, who are partnering with the LOC, that they have planted trees, would be given entry tickets for free. email print email print IAAF has undertaken the initiative to rehabilitate the destroyed parts of the forest.