After the failure of the 2007 General Election, and the resulting violence, the country turned its attention to the possibilities that technology might have in increasing electoral accountability, thus reducing future electoral malfunction and violence. The next elections, in 2013, provided the first occasion in Kenya’s history when technologies were employed in the management of elections. However, those technologies failed spectacularly, with the result that the quality of the election was as poor as, if not worse than, the previous elections in 2007. In relation to the elections that will take place on Tuesday, Kenya has taken the brave decision to try technologies again, and the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission has represented that it will run these elections with the use of technologies. MURDER Everything seemed fine until last week’s horrific murder of Chris Msando, the focal person at the IEBC in terms of technological preparations. Other than being a cruel and savage act, the murder of Msando was an attack on the preparations by the IEBC and has shaken public confidence in the ability of the commission to deliver free and fair elections. There is a universal perception that a political motive lies behind the murder of Msando. The killing of Carol Ngumbu, a young girl said to be a friend of Msando and whose body was discovered alongside his in a forest, has not lessened the perception that this was another political killing. With a crime of such gravity in the country’s hands, official behaviour has only served to deepen the perception that Msando was killed for political reasons. LOVE AFFAIR First, when Msando disappeared and before his body was discovered, a politician associated with the establishment was already suggesting that Msando’s disappearance had something to do with an extra-marital love affair. The subsequent discovery of his body, said to have been found in the same place with that of the young Carol Ngumbu, was widely seen as an attempt at creating a narrative that Msando’s death should only be viewed as connected with a woman, as opposed to a killing for political reasons. Secondly, before Msando’s body was found, pro-government trolls had already created a social media buzz, depicting Msando as an acolyte of several-NASA personalities, among them billionaire Jimmy Wanjigi and Kisumu Senator Anyang’ Nyong’o. Again, ahead of the announcement of his death, the idea was being planted that whatever had happened to Msando would be his comeuppance for associating with the opposition. TORTURED Thirdly, upon the discovery of his body alongside that of Carol Ngumbu, both of which bore signs that they had been tortured before they were killed, offers of help to investigate the killings were made by two friendly governments. Both the United States and the United Kingdom offered to help investigate the crime. After some dithering, the government finally announced its rejection of the offer of help, barely bothering to explain this decision. Since it is common ground that no investigation into all recent high-profile killing in Kenya has found the killers, there is no reasonable expectation that the people who killed Msando will be found. Given the surrounding circumstances, the suspicion of a political motive and the timing of the murders so close to the elections, a demonstration that the government was prepared to allow the most independent investigation into the murder would have been the least necessary for restoring some of the much needed confidence. COVER-UP In the circumstances, spurning the offer of help feels like a cover-up. Something should be said about poor Carol Ngumbu, a young life that was taken alongside Msando’s. Her presence in this sad crime may tempt a moral judgement on Msando’s lifestyle. However, stories about women are somehow woven into a large number of the political murders that take place in this country. At work here is Ryan William’s ideology of blaming the victim. It seems that the inclusion of a woman victim alongside the political target is to transfer some blame to the victim as a way of excusing the killing, and also possibly creating a smokescreen. CRIMES If, as widely perceived, the women are only pulled in to cleanse the crimes of their political connections, then these crimes are more offensive because they objectify innocent women in the cruellest of ways. The killing of Msando has solidified a context of fear that pervades the country’s approach to Tuesday’s elections. The stocking up of food supplies and the migration by citizens from places they regard as unsafe, are clear signs of the panic that has gripped the country. The perception is that the killing of Msando is consistent with, and enhances, a campaign of fear that the authorities started waging against the population more than a month ago. The public display of new police hardware was then accompanied by a chilling announcement by the police that they are now ready. SUGOI There is also the ill-explained security scare at the Sugoi home of Deputy President William Ruto and a concerted crackdown on public information, including patently illegal warnings that media houses that report on election results will be deregistered. This moment feels like 2007, when President Kibaki’s Party of National Unity ran an unrewarding campaign to win re-election against the challenger, Raila Odinga of ODM. When, at the tallying of the votes, it became apparent that Kibaki may lose, things degenerated from a democratic contest into a naked power struggle, in which Kibaki’s party set out to retain power at any cost. POWER STRUGGLE Like 2007, this election has long since degenerated into a power struggle in which any means necessary to retain power seems allowable. Sensing this and the trouble that may follow, the public is already scampering for safety, a development that will affect voting patterns and make it difficult to accept the results. The wheel has turned full circle and history now beckons President Uhuru Kenyatta, the same way it did to Kibaki in 2007. On that occasion Kibaki made bad decisions and the country suffered horrendously. It is to be hoped that Kenyatta will allow the democratic process to go to its conclusion. gkegoro@gmail.com  