Kirinyaga gubernatorial candidate Martha Karua has received a political boost after the influential former Jubilee chairman John Mithamo joined her camp ahead of the August 8 polls. He closed over to Ms Karua’s political camp after he fell out with former Devolution Cabinet Secretary Anne Waiguru who is also gunning for the same seat on a Jubilee ticket. The move is a major political blow to Ms Waiguru who is seen as the main challenger of the Narc Kenya leader. Speaking at Mukarara market in Gichugu Constituency during a Narc Kenya political rally, Mr Mithamo who is now vying the Ndia Parliamentary seat as an independent candidate declared that Ms Karua was his ideal candidate for the coveted seat which has attracted five contenders, among them the incumbent Governor Joseph Ndathi. NOT TAINTED He told hundreds of residents that he made the decision to support Ms Karua because her name is not tainted with scandals and the fact that she is campaigning for President Uhuru Kenyatta. “Ms Karua is an honest leader compared to her rivals and that is why I have thrown my weight behind her. “Her party has also endorsed the re-election of President Kenyatta whom I do support,” said Mr Mithamo, popularly known as Wasusana. The former Jubilee chairman who had been a close political ally of Ms Waiguru vowed to vigorously campaign for Ms Karua to ensure that she takes over the county’s leadership. HONOURED Ms Karua said she felt honoured and welcomed Mr Mithamo, whom she described as an admirable politician. “I know Mr Mithamo very well and I’m ready to work with him,” said Ms Karua who was accompanied by her running mate, Mr Gachoki Gitari. Ms Karua exuded confidence that she will win the elections and called on the residents to turn out in large numbers and vote for her. Mr Gitari, on the other hand, hit out at Ms Waiguru, accusing her of failing to prevent the looting of millions of shillings belonging to the National Youth Service when she was minister. He asked the residents to reject her during the coming elections and elect Ms Karua whom he described as a fearless and hardworking politician. “Ms Waiguru totally failed to tame corrupt officials in her ministry and she is not fit to lead,” said Mr Gitari. He also advised the youth to refuse to be used by politicians to cause chaos during this campaign period. “We want peace to prevail in our county and I’m appealing to the youth to restrain themselves from engaging in violent activities.   Waiguru's bodyguards shot in the air after rowdy youth attack convoy.