Rispa had been suffering sleepless nights when she came to the sexology clinic to seek help. She was fatigued. Her eyes were bloodshot. She had also been crying a lot. It occurred to me that she could be suffering from depression. I keep asking myself where I went wrong. I question God each day why I have to go through this, I have even contemplated suicide, she lamented. She was unable to contain the river of tears that rolled down her cheeks to settle on the collar of her white blouse, leaving a sinister odd coloured hollow circle that pierced through my disturbed mind. I don t understand, did you just say you have lost erections? I asked. She nodded vigorously. To my understanding, only men got erections. I explained that while the clitoris gets engorged when a woman is sexually stimulated, we do not call it an erection. I asked her to confirm what she was talking about. When my husband fails to get an erection for three months despite my doing everything to arouse him, what do you call that? she asked. Isn t it my mistake? Am I not the one who has failed to arouse him? Don t you then say that I have failed to achieve an erection from the helpless man? Now I understood her. James, Rispa s husband, had not had an erection for three months! Still, her perception of the situation left me frowning. The couple had been married 17 years and had three children. They had been happy until James lost his erections. The loss had been progressive over a month.It is amazing that Rispa perceived it as a failure on her end. Many women assume that the man is having an affair with a woman is much better than they are and that the man gets an erection out there but not at home.This self-persecutory perception makes women feel deficient, ugly and rejected. Unfortunately, a harsh reaction from a partner only worsens the failure. It makes the man bitter that his wife does not empathise or care about their predicament.Do not get me wrong, some men are unable to function sexually at home if they are having an affair. Before you reach this conclusion however, you need to be sure that your man is not suffering from erectile dysfunction that just needs medical attention.A number of men have also been found to discontinue treatment prematurely. The most common reason is discouragement from the spouse. Most women subconsciously feel that it is their self-deficiency that is making the man fail to erect, that the treatment for ED is a sign of their failure. They will not directly talk to the husband about this and in fact, may not even be aware of it but will react by discouraging the man from the treatment with reassurances such as the marriage is more important than sex and that she loves him whether he functions sexually or not.On rare occasions a man can fail to get erection because the woman has a sex problem. Take it this way: assume you have pain during sex and so every time the man makes advances you freak out and deny him sex. It could also be that you have low libido and find reasons to evade sex. Whatever the case may be, if you continuously stop the man s advances he soon feels rejected and one thing that can happen is that his erections start to fail.I asked Rispa to bring James along for the next clinic appointment. A detailed medical history, examination and tests showed that James had erection failure due to stress at work. What could have been transient, however, became chronic due to pressure from Rispa which led him to have performance anxiety. A few days of therapy solved the problem and the couple were back on their feet. email print email print