Harambee Starlets coach Richard Kanyi is targeting a semi-final finish when the team makes a maiden appearance at the Confederation of South African Football Associations (Cosafa) tournament starting September 13 in Bulawayo, Zimbabwe. Kanyi, who was named coach five days ago to replace the triumphant David Ouma, says that he will use the Cosafa tournament to prepare for the Cecafa Women’s competition as well as the 2018 Women’s Africa Cup of Nations qualifiers scheduled to begin early next year. “The main aim of this tournament is to help the girls prepare for the two major assignments ahead of us. I do not want to put unnecessary pressure on the girls, but I am hoping to get at least to the last four,” he said. The national team converged on the Moi International Sports Center in Kasarani on Sunday afternoon after nine months of inactivity, and the Cosafa tourney will be their first engagement since their historic appearance at the Women’s Afcon tournament in Cameroon last November. Kanyi’s new squad has seen the return off former captain Neddy Atieno, goalkeeper Pauline Atieno and deadly striker Mwanahalima Adam, all of whom missed the last assignment in Cameroon for varying reasons. Notable exclusions in the squad however include influential forward Christine Nafula and the immaculate Esse Akida who has been excused to allow her take part in the Global Goals World Cup scheduled to take place later this month in New York. The 2017 COSAFA Women’s Championship will be played in Bulawayo between September 13 and24, and Starlets are scheduled to begin their campaign on September 14 with a match against Mozambique. Kenya was drawn in Group B of the 12-team tournament alongside sublime opponents Mozambique, Swaziland and Mauritius, all of who failed to qualify for the last Afcon edition. Hosts and defending champions Zimbabwe were drawn in Group A together with Zambia, Madagascar and Malawi while three-time champions South Africa are in Group C with Namibia, Lesotho and Botswana. Kenya will play all its group matches at the 10,000-seater Luveve Stadium, while the Group A and C games will be staged at the 40,000-seater Barbourfields Stadium in Bulawayo. The Cosafa Women’s Championship is a rendition of the Cecafa Women’s Championship which was held for the first time last year in Jinja, Uganda where Kenya finished second behind champions Kilimanjaro queens of Tanzania. Provisional Kenya squad: Goalkeepers: Vivian Akinyi (Soccer Queens), Jenipher Adhiambo (Mathare United), Jane Achila (Oserian), Pauline Atieno (Makolanders). Defenders: Wendy-Ann Achieng (Spedag), Irene Ogutu (Oserian), Dorcas Shikobe (Oserian), Doris Anyango (Spedag), Lillian Adera (Vihiga Queens), Gerereder Akinyi (Mombasa Olympic), Juliet Auma (Thika Queens), Esther Nandika (Soccer Queens), Jackline Musula (Mathare). Midfielders: Carolyne Anyango (Spedag), Cheris Avilia (Spedag), Jacky Ogol (Spedag), Lydia Akoth (Thika Queens), Winfried Achieng (Mombasa Olympic), Winnie Kanyotu (Gaspo), Florence Awino (Gaspo). Strikers: Neddy Atieno (KDF), Mary Kinuthia (Unattached), Mercy Achieng(Thika Queens), Sharon Bushenei (Spedag), Lucy Mukhwana (KDF), Teresa Engesha (Vihiga Leeds), Phoebe Oketch (Vihiga Queens), Janet Moraa (Nyamira Starlets), Judith Musimbi (Soccer Queens), Mwanahalima Adam (Mombasa Olympic).  