Protests rocked Siaya, Homa Bay and Migori counties as National Super Alliance (Nasa) supporters reacted to declaration of President Uhuru Kenyatta’s win. Protestors lit bonfires and engaged police in running battles on Friday night and Saturday. In Siaya, the body of a man shot by police during the night protest was still lying on the road Saturday morning. Some roads were still blocked in the morning after overnight protests. Relatives said the victim, a boda boda operator, was shot by a police officer during the protest.   "We received information that my brother was killed from the chaos that escalates after the police engaged youths in running battles, " said John Okumbe, the victim’s brother. The protesters engaged police in running battles as they prevented the law enforcers from taking the body. "We prevented the police from picking the body as we believe they will conceal evidence," said a resident, Mr Kevin Otieno.   Roads were blocked in Homa Bay and Migori counties as protestors engaged police in running battles. There were reports that three people were injured during the protests. Gunshots rent the air and police used teargas to disperse protestors, who had lit bonfires in Mathare, Kibera, Kawangware, Korogosho, Dandora Friday night, shortly after the announcement. A police helicopter overflew the affected areas for the better part of the night.   There was an uneasy calm on Saturday morning. In Kisumu, police were deployed to man roads after chaos on Friday night. Protesters took to the streets at night after the declaration of the presidential winner by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC). Police engaged the protesters in running battles late into the night and used teargas to disperse them. GUNSHOTS Most youths were blowing vuvuzelas and whistles while others wailed. Gunshots could still be heard after midnight but the situation calmed towards dawn. As at 12am sounds of gunshots could still be heard in the running battles that ran late into the night. They however subsided toward dawn with police helicopter patrolling witnessed the city. In Mombasa and Kilifi, most shops remained closed Saturday as police intensified patrols in the town. Report by Fred Mukinda, Ondari Ogega, Winnie Atieno and Fredrick Fadhili   Demos in Raila strongholds of Kibera, Kisumu, Siaya and Migori.