Emmanuel Jambo landed our shores to visit his elder sister and 10 years later, he is still around. He s also managed to make himself one of the most sought after photographers in the country after landing one of the biggest gigs one can get, taking President Uhuru Kenyatta s official portrait. He talks life and other things to Karen MuruikiEmmanuel Jambo is a joker, most of the time. A fun guy, who is serious about work. Loves creativity.I studied Computer and Information Systems in Chicago, Illinois. My main aim, however, was basketball. I stopped playing after I got injured. I worked in IT after I graduated, after which I just picked up photography. This was 11 years ago. Photography was home when I was a kid, but I wasn t serious about it.I moved to Kenya 10 years ago. I was born in Sudan. We moved to Egypt when I was 10 years old, and then to the United States when I was 16. I have family in Kenya. I had initially just come to visit my elder sister, who is a photographer as well. She worked with the United Nations and decided to settle here. I got inspired through her work as I was growing up. I then got a job after a few calls were made to a couple of magazines. I have worked with President Uhuru Kenyatta and a number of Heads of States. I did the official presidential portrait. Being able to inspire a whole generation of photographers through my work cuts as my greatest achievement so far in life. It was an amazing feeling when I got the call to do President Kenyatta s official portrait. That s when one realises they are on the right path and that they are doing something good. It was an honour. It felt really good. When I started photography, I didn t plan on doing it professionally. I had a job, but I really loved photography. I would look at pictures and analyse them, and would even go to exhibitions and galleries. I started shooting fans when I started photography. A fan would talk to another, and that would be the job. But a friend s brother was getting married and I was asked to shoot the wedding. I started researching and honestly, I was scared as hell. It looked hard, and there s no way I could have messed up.I ended up doing it, and he was so happy with my work that he paid me. I remember him telling me how a few of his friends have had weddings in the past and they hired photographers who were in the industry for years but weren t nearly as good. This encouraged me a lot. I started a website and local artistes and models from Atlanta would call me to take photos of them. Staying loyal to clients and being humble no matter the level of success are some of the greatest things I have learnt over the years. Stick to your roots, and you ll be alright. Starting out, I looked up to Joe Buissink, Ansel Adams, for his black and white landscape photography, and Annie Leibovitz, who inspired me so much with her portraits. What drives me is knowing that I am printing out memories for people that are going to last a lifetime. Being there for people, and their history. It drives me, knowing that I will make a difference in their lives. What I think sets me apart is my photography style. A lot of people look for one thing, or copy others. I enforced a lot of black and white, which people didn t like at the time. It s what I grew up seeing my sister do, and I just loved it. I love the candid moments whenever I am shooting. It s what I aim to get, the special moments. As I got more into fashion photography, I set my style apart more, in that, if I am shooting a wedding, it will be a combination of the candid moments as well as fashion. I love fine art. I never settle for less, and that means doing the best in my work, no matter who or what I am shooting. I used to carry a camera wherever I went, I was always working. With time, I have learnt to leave my camera behind. It s a hard thing for me to do, because I am still trying to learn on how to leave my laptop if I m going somewhere, especially if I am on vacation.Generally, I try separating work and fun. I try not to talk about photography whenever I m hanging out with friends. Basketball is one of my hobbies that I am trying to get back to. I am still working on my knee, ankle and shoulder injuries so that I can get back to playing. I have played Ping-Pong since I was little. I love vintage cars. In a couple of weeks, I ll start a project of fixing old cars. I like the fundi work. Like planting, exterior and interior decor. I have decorated my entire house by myself, and I have also planted everything there. Cooking is also another hobby and my family actually can t believe it. Growing up, I would just grab something to eat from the kitchen and run whenever I was hungry. I couldn t even make an egg. I used to eat out a lot until three or four years ago when I decided to change. Thanks to YouTube videos and food channels, I can make a mean stir fry and a couple of African dishes. I love spicy food, too. I love Lamu, Jamaica, Zanzibar, Dakar, Cape Town and New York. Kenya is basically home, so I really wouldn t consider it a destination. I used to read quite a lot but I slowed down because of work. Using the camera and staring at screens makes my eyes so tired, which means I really wouldn t be able to read after that. I am however, getting into audio books. I do read magazines because it s not as intense as reading a novel. I have been into reggae since I was a kid. I have also recently started liking West African music, which I think is very culturally rich. My favourite TV channel at the moment is HGTV, which mostly deals with renovating homes and making one s furniture. I also like Discovery Channel because of my love for cars and National Geographic. Comedies and Thriller-Suspense movies are my thing. I also watch a lot of documentaries. @mbuyamuriuki email print email print