Q. I am baker with an interest in acting. Recently, I had an interview with the casting directors of a popular TV show. I am thinking of baking some cupcakes for them in appreciation for the interview but I am afraid that it might seem as if I am trying to bribe them to give me a job. What would you think if you were the interviewer and I baked you cupcakes?  I would gladly receive them and munch on without a care in the world or any reference to the interview. And if you failed the interview, you would get a regret just like the others. Also, in case you were among the top contestants and a decision was yet to be made, you would lose a point and most probably, I would end up not selecting you. I would feel as if you are trying to bribe me, a stranger, so please do not bake the casting directors cupcakes. For the record, sending gifts after an interview is a clear ‘NO’ as it is likely to be misconstrued as a gesture towards influencing the interviewers’ decision, irrespective of how good and pure your intentions are. There are a few others things to avoid after an interview. Calling the recruiter immediately or within a few days after the interview, reason being you will come across as desperate and too keen to run away from your current job. Wait until you are contacted, or follow up two days after time promised for feedback has lapsed. Equally, do not invite your interviewer for lunch, coffee or a drink. Your intentions will be misunderstood. Also avoid unnecessary social media contact immediately after an interview, especially a friend request on Facebook, LinkedIn connection or immediate follow on Twitter or Instagram. You do not want your recruiter to have the slightest feeling that you could be stalking them. What is the best way to behave after an interview? Send a thank you note to your interviewers’, better if it is via email, which is more formal than a text message, which tends to depict familiarity. Once you are successful and get appointed to the job, send a thank you note. Sending a reasonable thank you gift may be acceptable, but may make people uncomfortable. Do it only if you have to.  