The government has badly handled the post-election unrest and created more confusion and public anger. At the weekend, acting Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i publicly declared there had been no deaths in the conflict. But no sooner had he finished his statement than we got concrete information of several deaths through police brutality and the horrifying incident of a 10-year-old girl hit by a stray bullet in Nairobi’s Mathare area. CASUALTIES Two civil society organisations have put the death toll at between 17 and 20, while Nasa says 100 people have been killed. But in quick succession, police gave various figures of the casualties, clearly demonstrating disorganisation within the service. Police spokesman George Kinoti reported six deaths countrywide, yet the Nairobi police boss put the toll in the city alone at 10. ROGUE OFFICERS We know more deaths were reported in Kisumu and outlying areas, meaning the fatalities are higher. The big question is: Why this dishonesty and blatant lies? And why criminalise protest by unarmed citizens? Residents of the affected areas have reported brutal use of force ostensibly to quell riots. Live bullets have been shot at innocent people and families pulled out of their homes and battered by rogue police officers. LIVE BULLETS Yet the authorities have shamelessly denied this. Protest or picketing is a constitutional right and the officers are well aware of this. Police rules disavow use of brute force in handling protesters; particularly the use of live bullets. Even when faced with criminals, the rule is to immobilise and arrest. BOINNETThe police have a duty to keep law and order; protect lives and property. They must do dictated by the law. However, enforcing security does not mean suspending the law. It does not allow extra-judicial killing and criminalising peaceful protests. CRIMINALS Inspector-General of Police Joseph Boinnet must explain what is happening and most importantly rein in officers hell-bent on visiting mayhem on hapless civilians. The police must secure the nation, and in particular, stop criminals from hounding the public. But they must not take the law into their hands and hoodwink the public with false reports.  