National Super Alliance (Nasa) has claimed that police raided its offices in Nairobi and carted away computers and destroyed servers. Police have refuted these claims and said Nasa is yet to report the incident at any police station. Here is what we know so far: On Friday evening at around 10pm, several Nasa officials confirmed to Nation journalists that men wearing hoods and suspected to be police officers had raided Nasa offices at a building on Lenana Road.  Mr Paul Mwangi, who is the head of Nasa flag bearer Raila Odinga's presidential legal team; Machakos Senator Johnson Muthama and Norman Magaya, the Nasa chief executive officer separately confirmed the report.  Nation reporters visited the said Nasa tallying centre on Lenana Road but found no sign of a raid. Night guards and other tenants said they had seen nothing untoward.  Later, around midnight, Nasa co-principal Musalia Mudavadi addressed journalists and said that hooded men had raided their offices in Westlands. He said the attackers ransacked the office, harassed its staff and carted away desktop computers, laptops, CCTVs and destroyed their servers and alarm.  Shortly before midnight, Mr Dennis Onyango— Mr Odinga's spokesman— issued a statement saying police in hoods, armed with AK47 and machine guns raided different offices that host Nasa operations.  On Saturday, police denied claims that they raided Nasa offices. Police Spokesperson George Kinoti said the allegations are not true and that Nasa has not reported the incident at any police station.  At about 1pm on Saturday, Siaya Senator James Orengo addressed journalists and alleges that those who broke into Nasa offices were looking for contacts of polling agents with the aim of compromising them. He said the attack was part of a wider operation that saw four foreigners, who are friends of the opposition, being held by police. Of the four foreigners, two from Ghana had been blocked from entering the country while an American and a Canadian were arrested in their apartment. Orengo also said the US ambassador to Kenya Robert Godec had since traced the two and found them in police custody.   