Veteran coast politician Masoud Mwahima was one of the biggest casualties in Tuesday elections after being beaten by outgoing Mombasa woman representative Mishi Mboko in the Likoni MP seat race Ms Mboko, an ODM diehard and a close ally of the party leader Raila Odinga and his deputy Hassan Joho, garnered 27,462 votes against Mr Mwahima’s 14,684. The other contenders, Mr Suleiman Shakombo and Mr Bernard Waore, got 2,634 and 2,611 votes respectively. Returning officer Luciana Sanzua rejected attempts by losers to stop the final declaration of the winners by alleging irregularities. But on Friday, Mr Mwahima contested the results and vowed to seek redress in court. “I disagree with the polls showing Ms Mishi Mboko as the incoming MP for Likoni Constituency. The tallying was not fair. My agents were thrown out of some polling stations allowing my opponent to influence the tallying process,” he said. DEFEND SEATS Ms Mboko is among woman representatives who opted not to defend their seats but seek constituency positions. In Changamwe, MP Omar Mwinyi of ODM carried the day while Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir also won the voters favour. In Nyali constituency, journalist Mohamed Ali, who vied as an independent candidate, beat his closest rival Said Abdallah of ODM. Mr Ali contested for the seat as an independent candidate after he was beat by Mr Abdallah in the ODM party nominations. In Jomvu, MP Badi Twalib of ODM was declared the winner. Taveta MP Naomi Shaban (Jubilee) also narrowly won the race, getting 11,322 votes against her closest rival Morris Mutiso of ANC who got 11,135 votes in the hotly contested seat. Voi MP Jones Mlolwa also won another term by garnering 18,407 votes against his rival Dishon Mngodi’s 14,609. SIX CANDIDATES Mr Danson Mwashako of Wiper Democratic Movement clinched the Wundanyi Parliamentary seat in a hotly contested race after flooring six candidates. Returning Officer Hamisi Tsumo declared Mr Mwashako the winner after garnering 8,373 votes. Mr Mwashako, who is a former Equity Bank branch manager, floored Mr Simon Mwachia of Jubilee Party and Mr Raymond Mwangola of ODM who polled 5,116 and 2,016 votes respectively. Mr Cromwell Baridi of Ford-Kenya and former area MP Mwandawiro Mgangah (SDP) polled 2,864 and 1,656 respectively. Mr Pius Chorongo of Kanu came sixth after garnering 1,336 votes while Paul Malinge of Maendeleo Chap Chap was last after garnering only 86 votes across the 60 polling centres. DISPUTED RESULTS Mr Mgangah has disputed the results, instructing his agents not to append their signatures on the forms. In Matuga constituency, Kwale County, Mr Kassim Tandaza of ANC won the parliamentary race. Mr Tandaza got 16,985 votes, beating outgoing MP Hassan Mwanyoha who managed 12,627. Mr  Mwalimu Digore Kitambi got 8,468, Mr Athman Mwarora garnered 4,792. Others in the race were Mr Masudi Mwakileo (2,234) and Mr Masudi Bakari (1,403). In Msambweni, provisional results showed MP Suleiman Dori of ODM had been re-elected. In Garsen constituency, Wiper candidate Ali Guyo won after he garnered 8,702 votes while his closest competitor Mr Maurice Jillo got 5,984. In Bura, incumbent MP Ali Wario was re-elected. Mr Wario got 10,459 votes with his closest competitor, Yakub Kuno of ODM getting 8,046 votes. Additional reporting by Hamisi Ngowa, Evalyne Kirui, Daniel Nyassy, Brian Ocharo, Wachira Mwangi, Galgalo Bocha, Charles Lwanga, Lucy Mkanyika, Mohamed Ahmed and Abigael Ruto  