The Nairobi County Assembly Speaker Alex ole Magelo has retired from active politics and will not seek re-election as the first sitting of the assembly after the August 8 elections convenes Wednesday next week. Mr Magelo had earlier hinted that he would contest for the assembly’s top seat after he was defeated in the race for the Kajiado West parliamentary seat. At the same time the IEBC have gazetted 38 nominated MCAs who will join the 85 elected members in the assembly. Speaking to Nation, the Nairobi County Assembly clerk Jacob Ngwele said they have proposed the first sitting be held next week and that he will give Governor Mike Sonko the gazette notice to convene the new assembly. During the first meeting, the assembly will elect their Speaker and the Deputy Speaker, a position that has attracted over ten people. The clerk said that they will also advertise for the position of Speaker. Mr Magelo said that it was time for him to take a break having served for 25 years at City Hall. “I am tired, I have never expressed need to contest for the seat. I am retiring after 25 years in City Hall,” said Mr Magelo. JUBILEE NOMINEE Although the seat seems to be a surety for the Jubilee nominee, former nominated Senator Beatrice Elachi, a new entrant, Teddy Muturi, has expressed interest. He had contested the Huruma MCA seat on a Jubilee ticket. Mr Muturi said although he does not have the money to lobby for the position, he will still take a shot at it. He said that he is qualified and he has been meeting with the members in a bid to lobby for the position. “I know the Speaker’s position needs millions (of shillings for lobbying) which I do not have. I just hope I get the job since I am fresh and young in politics (and) I can bring new ideas,” said Mr Muturi. OTHER HOPEFULS Others eyeing the seat include former Makadara MP Bernard Mutura, former Nairobi Woman Rep Rachel Shebesh and Ms Karen Nyamu who also contested for city woman rep’s seat. For the position of Deputy Speaker, Jubilee has proposed Kamangu Nyumu (Ruai) while Mwaura Chege (Ngara) is being touted to take the majority whip’s slot. The Speaker’s panel will have Mark Ndungu (Maringo/Hamza), Cyrus Mathara (Dandora 2) and Patricia Mutheu of Mlango Kubwa Ward. In ODM, former Minority Chief Whip David Mberia will battle it out for the seat with newly elected Baba Dogo MCA and former mayor Godfrey Majiwa and former majority leader and Kileleshwa MCA Elias Otieno.  