In any other country, we would be in the last stretch of our electoral process, gently preparing for either a win or a loss. But in this Kenya, it is unlikely that this is the last stretch, and we could be gearing up for an even more chaotic period precisely because of the efforts to increase opaqueness and fear. But first, my sincere condolences to the family, friends and colleagues of the late Chris Msando. CHRIS MSANDO Sources within the IEBC speak of him as one of the champions of integrity, determined that the ICT he managed did not fail, nor was it compromised. His loss is deeply felt by the other champions in the IEBC who want to do a credible job, in a work place where some commissioners and senior staff — including some who claim to be born-again Christians — are working for a specific result and declaration. His brutal assassination has increased the sense of foreboding and fear that is being consciously cultivated. VOTERSI was in western Kenya last week and in Kisumu this week, and the prevailing mood is one combining apprehension with determination. Ordinary people there know how they are voting, and after doing the ethnic mathematics, believe they know how the results should flow. But still they fear, and their fear is not illogical. For rather than this election being about fairly determining the future of Kenya, as well as implementing our rights in the Constitution, it has turned out to be about retaining power at all costs on the one hand by promoting fear, voter depression, and opaqueness, and not allowing vote theft on the other hand. RESTRICTEDThe bellicose statements by the police and Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i that, “we are ready for you”, and “… (people) should be removed from around polling stations by any means necessary”, have been taken as war cries by the state against its own people. The illegal and unnecessary warnings by Cabinet Secretary Joe Mucheru that the media will be shut down if they announce results before the IEBC even when the law says that IEBC will be announcing final results at each polling station, is yet another way to increase fear and opaqueness, as are the personal attacks on specific judges. We need not mention the intended impact of the 18 hour-one-man “siege” of Mr William Ruto’s home in Sugoi. PROTESTSNow the Kisumu County Commissioner has purported to suspend the Constitution and ordered a blanket ban on all protests in Kisumu during and after the elections! Yet, Article 37 allowing peaceful protests is still in force and international standards demand that during elections, the state should expand rights, not restrict them. Restricting rights is done by autocrats. PHOTOSWhy, amidst the calls for peace and the slogans telling us the elections are not worth dying for, have there been no corresponding calls to the police and the state that no Kenyan is worth killing, or maiming because of an election? Why are there no pledges for government officials and police to obey the law? There is also the illegal IEBC order that you can’t take photos or film in polling stations. MILITARY What shouldn’t be allowed are pictures that show the voter’s choice, but unless the IEBC has something to hide — such as unleashing already marked ballots or changing results — why should pictures not be taken? Surely, the best way for polling station results to be sent around by agents, observers and others is by taking pictures of Form 34 and videotaping officials announcing results to compare with what is officially announced at the Bomas National Tallying Centre. We have seen allegations of military deployments that only make sense if the State has declared war on its own people and against the Constitution. COUPMake no mistake, an illegal or irregular declaration of the wrong person as the winner will not be constitutionally legitimate: Rather, it will be a civilian coup. The IEBC and the state have a choice here, and it is simple. To allow as much freedoms, transparency and accountability as possible, or lay the foundation for an illegitimate and unstable regime in a country dominated by chaos. For, this time, I doubt that the events that follow can be “managed.” Maina Kiai is a human rights activist and co-director at InformAction. mkiai2000@yahoo.com  