“Not long ago, I was in the 12th year of my career as a lawyer. I enjoyed putting in long hours at an internationally renowned organisation. However once I got married and started a family, my priorities shifted. “My biggest frustration was being unavailable for my husband and young child. I would leave the house at the crack of dawn and come home late. At work, my mind was always on my family. At home, my mind was always on my work. I was not giving my best to either. Something had to change. I needed an income from mentally fulfilling work that was flexible enough to allow me to spend more time with my young family. BODY BY NINA “The decision to become to a personal trainer was a natural choice. For many years people would ask me for advice on training programmes, nutrition, and weight loss. It seemed obvious to take something I was already doing for free. Thus began Body By Nina. “I used my savings to become a certified fitness professional, and to purchase equipment. Exercise equipment is surprisingly costly so I invested in key pieces and slowly built up my collection. “Naturally, there was some push-back. My father was particularly opposed to the idea as he couldn’t imagine all those years of study and work experience going to waste. Personal training was still considered a career for people who did not have many other alternatives, and certainly not one you could make a decent income on. “My main support network was my husband and my sisters. My husband is a highly practical man. To him, decisions have to make dollars and sense. After his initial scepticism, he has been one of my staunchest supporters. My sisters were thrilled. The eldest said, ‘Passion is the fuel for success.’ But I didn’t just plunge headlong into this enterprise. My husband compelled me to create a business plan. Even though I was self-funding with a relatively small capital outlay, he made me realise that it was essential to see on paper what income I would be generating compared to what I was leaving behind. It was hard work but I still refer to and adjust that plan to date. FIRST CLIENT “I then applied for a diploma in personal training from the American College of Exercise. It was a six-month intensive study programme. I studied physiology, biomechanics, injury, recovery, the psychology of sport and much more. I also attended regular seminars and training sessions, culminating in a rather stressful exam period. Meanwhile, I was training my sisters and a few friends at cost. They were willing guinea pigs and it helped smooth my transition to paying clients I also worked with one of my mentors – a local osteopath and sports physiotherapist. “My most exciting moment was landing my first independent client who wasn’t a friend or family member. She approached me as I was exercising in the gym, asking for advice on form. After a brief conversation she mentioned that if I was a trainer she would hire me. I walked out of the gym that day on clouds! “Since then, seeing the changes in my clients motivates me. I love helping people get fitter and feel better about themselves. I have grown tremendously in the five years since Body By Nina began. I am grateful to the clients who have been with me from the start.   “Initially, my bank account took a huge hit. During the first year, I almost went back to employment. I was making hardly any money and worse, I had a lot of spare time to think about how little I was making. Unlike the days when I rarely gave a thought to spending, now I have to be prudent. Ironically, this has improved the quality of my life. “Surviving the first year taught me that I am resilient. I now respect the work that goes into any business. You work much harder than during employment but it is so rewarding! Typically, my day starts at 5am. I drink water and meditate, grab a smoothie or fruit and get going. After back-to-back clients, I pick my daughter from school in the afternoon and exercise. I spend time with her, have an early supper with my husband, do admin and meal prep then sleep by 10pm. “Treating myself like both a boss and an employee has ensured the success of my business. This means scheduling time for myself for mental and physical wellness, investing in my professional development, paying myself a salary, and reinvesting into the business. When my work first started picking up, I was working all hours. I neglected my family and myself, and this took a toll on my health. I burned out. My coach intervened and helped me reboot my business model. My advice to myself as a new entrepreneur would have been to place more value on myself. Treat yourself the way you want people to treat you. Oh, and also, get everything in writing in advance.” HOW NINA DID IT 1. Be practical about your business’ growth trajectory. Nothing will kill your motivation faster than unrealistic expectations. 2. Have a solid business plan. From raising capital and interest and attracting investors, to keeping you on the straight and narrow, to allowing you to chart progress. 3. Don’t let fear of failure hold you back. Learn from mistakes and see each failure as a lesson. 4. When you start a business with the motive of providing real help to people, peace and contentment will accompany success. 5. Do not let other people determine your successes. Define your own success and be in control of your own narrative.  