The Global Fund has approved a request from the Health ministry for a grant of nearly Sh36 billion  for running malaria, HIV and tuberculosis programmes in the country. The approval for the grant, meant for the 2017-2019 cycle, was announced on Tuesday during a special oversight committee meeting at Afya House in Nairobi. An estimated Sh22 billion  has been allocated to HIV programmes, Sh4 billion for tuberculosis (TB) management, Sh6 billion for fighting malaria, and Sh4 billion for what the ministry referred to as resilient and sustainable systems for health. Kenya submitted a funding application to the Global Fund in May, amid a tussle between the national and county governments on who should have sent the request, since health is now a devolved function. READ: Why Aids fight is under threat Currently, the system allows the grants from the organisation — which exclusively funds programmes on malaria, HIV and tuberculosis — to be received first by the national government, which acts as the principal recipient. JULIUS KORIR The ministry then determines how the money is allocated to counties. Speaking at the meeting, Health Principal Secretary Julius Korir assured Kenyans that access to services and supplies will not be interrupted by the ongoing political campaigns. READ: US and France committed to Aids funding The Global Fund country team was led by Mr John Ochero. The programmes financed by the Global Fund to fight Aids, TB and malaria fall under the director of Medical Services, Dr Jackson Kioko. TREASURY To date, the fund, which was set up in 2002, has disbursed nearly $887,990,102 (Sh91.6 billion) to the Treasury. In the 2015-2017 cycle, Kenya signed seven grant agreements for Sh33 billion to expand interventions for HIV, tuberculosis and malaria. At least Sh21.9 billion would see about 600,000 more Kenyans with HIV put on antiretroviral treatment by the end of this year. The grants would also support programmes for prevention of mother-to-child transmission of HIV.  