Officials of four trade unions affiliated to Trade Union Congress of Kenya (TUC-K) have endorsed National Super Alliance (Nasa) flag bearer Raila Odinga in the August 8 General Election. Kenya National Union of Teachers (KNUT) Secretary General Wilson Sossion, deputy secretary of Kenya University Staff Union (KUSU) Dr Charles Mukhwana and vice chairman of Dock Workers Union Mohamed Sheria said they are solidly behind Mr Odinga. Also represented at the signing ceremony at Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho’s office was Abidan Mwachi, the Kenya Medical Practitioners, Pharmacists and Dentists' Union (KMPDU) Mombasa Chapter secretary. But the move was opposed by union officials from Central Kenya and North Rift, who distanced themselves from the agreement. POWER Speaking at the signing ceremony Friday, Mr Odinga said the Nasa government would work with unions for the betterment of workers once it assumes power. “The Jubilee government has not honoured even the agreements that have been signed,” said Mr Odinga. Mr Sossion said they are signing the agreement on behalf of trade unions of Kenya and all other unions in public service. “This MOU is negotiated and detailed,” said Mr Sossion, adding that they are committed to it and it would address the challenges of the workers. “It is not for public relations. It will lead to respect and recognition of international labour standards in Kenya. As part of the trade unions congress of Kenya we support the campaign and will vote for Nasa,” he said. But Mt Kenya Teachers Forum has distanced itself from the MoU. PERSONAL MOVE The forum's coordinator, Mr Ndung'u Wangenye, dismissed Mr Sossion’s statement that teachers are supporting the Nasa flag bearer as untrue. "We are fully behind Uhuruto and Jubilee government. There is no MoU for workers there. It's an MoU for Sossion," said Mr Wangenye. "It's a personal move by Sossion for self-gain as a Secretary General of Trade Union Congress," added Mr Wangenye, who is also Laikipia County KUPPET executive secretary. The Mt Kenya Forum consists of teachers drawn from 10 counties: Kirinyaga, Nyeri, Laikipia, Murang’a, Nyandarua, Nakuru, Embu, Meru, Tharaka Nithi and Kiambu. He said the Kuppet and Knut executive officials from the counties are supporting President Kenyatta. “We have been campaigning under the auspices of Mt Kenya Teachers Forum. We appreciate that Mr Sossion is listed for nomination but we are not following him to the opposition,” said Mr Wangenye. DEMOCRATIC RIGHT Teachers in Uasin Gishu County also accused Mr Sossion of using his position in the union to advance personal interests. Wareng Knut branch Secretary General John Bor asked him to allow teachers to exercise their democratic right of voting for their preferred candidates. “Sossion is my boss yes, but I am disagreeing with him on this one. He may be my senior but he should let teachers exercise their democratic right as stipulated in the Constitution instead of imposing leaders on them on whom to support,” said Mr Bor. Mr Bor said the Rift Valley region is fully behind the re-election of President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto. “Teachers in Rift Valley are fully behind Jubilee. What Mr Sossion has done is for his own personal gain and not for the entire teaching fraternity,” he added. He reiterated that the union officials will later in the year will converge in Mombasa where they will seek to oust Mr Sossion from his position. “It is now clear that Mr Sossion does not have the interest of teachers at heart and that is the reason why we are going to oust him from his position when we meet in Mombasa in December,” he said. Reports by Gitonga Marete, Eunice Murathe, Joseph Wangui and Dennis Lubanga  