One of the greatest promises of the Constitution was devolution of power. The framers sought to achieve this in two ways. The first is the traditional sense in which devolution is understood today: The creation of counties with functions to be performed separately and apart from the national government. This was seen as devolution within the Executive. SEPARATION OF POWERS However, there is a kind of devolution that is often missed. This is the devolution at the national level. This applies across the legislative and executive arms of the government. Firstly the authority of the National Assembly to make laws was devolved by the creation of the Senate as a legislative check on its law-making powers. The other kind of national-level devolution is the traditional separation of powers between the Legislature and the Executive. EXECUTIVE Previously, Parliament was almost an appendage of the Executive on account of the fact that the Cabinet had a direct presence as MPs, but also as members of the Executive starting from the President to his ministers and their assistants. The Executive almost always had its way in the Legislature. The Constitution of 2010 sought to change this. CABINET Firstly, the Cabinet members are no longer MPs. The calendar of the Parliament is not subject to control of the Executive as was the case previously, when the President had power to prorogue and summon Parliament. In this way, the Legislature’s oversight over the Executive has more scope for independence and rigorous scrutiny. This structure leaves the country with the possibility that the President could be elected from one party but find his party or coalition with a minority in the National Assembly and, possibly, have a Senate controlled by a totally different party or coalition or even independents. ACCOUNTABILITY By some stroke of fortune, the first election under this Constitution delivered the President, National Assembly and Senate of one coalition and its supporters. This may have given the Executive a fairly easy way in getting its agenda pushed through Parliament, which might have, in turn, failed to provide the checks envisaged. Persons in love with authoritarianism under the guise of practical politics would argue that spreading control of the various arms of government across political parties stands to foment gridlock. INDEPENDENTS It might come as a shock to them that this election could lead to a presidency of one party or coalition, the National Assembly and Speaker of the opposing party and a Senate of a different party or coalition of independents. Remember that a Speaker elected by a party in opposition to the President’s could act in the absence of the President and deputy! Yet the wisdom here lies in the spirit of the Constitution. It’s intended to create a superstructure of negotiation rather than for outright victory. BALANCE If all political actors and state officers were to appreciate this constitutional unction, there would perhaps be more level-headed debates and better legislation. This need for governance through deliberation is not a failure only within the national level: It is a shock that the 2013 elections did not just deliver this lack of balance at the national level, there was a county where the governor and all the MCAs were from one party! This required quite some gerrymandering to choose the Leader of the Minority. This could not have been intended to be the case. COURTSIn short, the balance intended is, at its best, when there is tension arising from the various arms of government seeking to assert themselves. It is the failure to understand this constitutional imperative that makes politicians understand the courts. The courts have held their side of the bargain by asserting their independence from the legislative and executive branches — much to the latter’s annoyance. The legislative branch has yet to do that. We could spur the electorate to uphold the constitutional framework astir by ensuring a complete separation of the Executive from the legislative arm. Mr Owino is Head of Legal, Nation Media Group. sowino@ke.nationmedia.com  