Deputy President William Ruto has reiterated that the ruling Jubilee party is ready to concede defeat if they lose in today’s elections and challenged Nasa principals to make the same commitment. "As Jubilee, we are democrats and we shall accept the verdict of Kenyans and our competitors should do the same if they lose," said Mr Ruto. He was speaking Tuesday after casting his vote at Kosachei Primary School in Turbo Constituency in Uasin Gishu few minutes after 11am.PEACEFUL CAMPAIGNSThe DP was accompanied by his wife Rachel and a host of local leaders including MPs Oscar Sudi (Kapseret) and Elisha Busienei (Turbo). Mr Ruto termed recent campaigns as peaceful and issue-oriented unlike in the past when he said they were ethnic-based. However, the DP cautioned Kenyans against acts that could plunge the country into violence after voting. “As Jubilee, we let Kenyans to judge us based on our track record but in the event we lose, life will go on and I will concentrate on my other developmental issues," the DP added. MAINTAIN PEACE He called on Kenyans to maintain peace, noting that the world is focusing on the outcome of Kenya’s elections. In Bungoma, Nasa co-principal Moses Wetang’ula said that the coalition will only accept the results if the elections are free, fair and credible. Speaking after casting his vote at Makhele Primary School in Kabuchai Constituency, Mr Wetang’ula, who is defending his Senate seat, said that if the polls will not be free and fair they will challenge the results in court. “We will only accept a fair result. Anything short of it will mean that we will go to court. We can’t accept our votes to be rigged while we sit down and watch. We must win this time,” he said. VOTE PEACEFULLY He called on voters to vote peacefully and ensure they unseat the Jubilee administration from power. At the same time, Bungoma Governor Ken Lusaka decried voter bribery, accusing some supporters affiliated to opposition parties of vote buying. He was speaking after voting at Kamukuywa ACK Primary school. “We need fair and free elections. Voters have decided and they will vote in leaders who are development-conscious,” he said. HEAVY RAINS In Turkana County, heavy downpour delayed voting in seven polling stations in Turkana Central Constituency and 12 polling stations in Loima Constituency. Turkana County Returning Officer George Oyugi said that by 9am the polling stations had not been opened because the roads were impassable after nearby rivers broke their banks because of rains that pounded the area. Mr Oyugi asked the voters not to worry, saying voting time lost will be compensated. “Regulations require IEBC to add more time to compensate the time lost due to delay of voting materials,” the IEBC official told reporters at Handcraft polling station in Lodwar Town. Turkana Governor Josephat Nanok asked the IEBC to use helicopters to distribute voting materials in far-flung areas. “IEBC was late to dispatch voting materials and clerks in the expansive Turkana West and Turkana North constituencies. We have informed them and they have promised to use a helicopter,” said Mr Nanok, who is seeking re-election on an ODM ticket. In Baringo, Kanu leader Gideon Moi cast his vote at Tandui Primary School in Baringo Central Constituency where he said he will accept the voters’ will. ARRESTED In Elgeyo-Marakwet, the county Director of Sports Silas Rotich was arrested following claims that he was bribing voters at Kapteren polling station in Keiyo North Constituency. He was taken to Iten Police Station. Keiyo North OCPD Mwenda Meme confirmed the arrest saying investigations had been launched. In Tinderet, Nandi County, voters said they had been offered money to vote for particular parliamentary candidates. They said various agents were giving Sh200 to them. In Kapseret, Uasin Gishu County, hundreds of voters braved the cold morning to cast their votes. There were long queues from as early as 4am. Voting at Wareng polling station commenced at exactly 6am. There were no major hitches reported. And In Kesses Constituency in the same county, a spot check by Daily Nation revealed that voters turned up in most polling stations from as early as 4am. TIGHT SECURITY Security was tightened in most voting centres. At Racecourse Primary School polling station, some voters were disappointed after the electronic voter identification kits failed to read their finger prints. “I was ready to exercise my democratic right but the kits cannot recognise my finger prints. I’ve tried three times in vain. I’ve been told to come back later,” said Kobilo Talaam, 70. To beat the long queues, some voters employed tricks including turning up at polling stations with children to be excused to cast their votes. Kesses Jubilee Party parliamentary candidate Swarup Mishra, who cast his vote at Racecourse Primary School polling station, commended IEBC for the timely delivery of election materials. “We’ve not reported any hitches so far. I hope the will of the people will prevail,” said Dr Mishra. Reporting by Barnabas Bii, Philemon Suter, Titus Oteba, Flora Koech, Sammy Lutta, Brenda Gamonde, Wycliff Kipsang and Emmason Etabo  