The move by the High Court in Nairobi to stop the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission from deleting the name of Embu Gubernatorial candidate Kithinji Kiragu has thrown open the race for the seat, two days to the General Election. IEBC had on Wednesday announced that they would reprint the governor’s ballot papers for the county without the name of the public sector management consultant, arguing that he was not properly nominated by IEBC. Mr Kiragu emerged second in the 2013 contest, and faces incumbent Governor Martin Wambora, Senator Lenny Kivuti, Mr Leonard Muriuki (Narc Kenya), Dr Njagi Kumantha (DP) and Dr Cyrus Njiru (Independent). YOUTH VOTERSHowever, the contest is mainly between Mr Wambora, Mr Kivuti and Mr Kiragu, who is commonly referred to as ‘KK’, although Mr Muriuki, 36, has a strong appeal, especially among the youth. The inclusion of Mr Kiragu in the contest is particularly interesting since he comes from the populous Manyatta constituency, which, in his absence, was seen as the swing vote. RESTRATEGISEMr Kivuti hails from Mbeere North while Mr Wambora’s bedrock is Runyenjes. Latest IEBC statistics indicate that Manyatta has 91,274 registered voters, Runyenjes 83,943 Mbeere South 72,057 and Mbeere North 51, 545. But the ruling by Mr Justice Msagha Mbogholi on Thursday, ordering IEBC not to reprint the ballot papers without his name on them as it had announced on August 2, takes his rivals back to the drawing board. Already, there was a blame game between Mr Kivuti and Mr Wambora’s supporters over who wanted Mr Kiragu out of the contest. ENDORSEMENTMr Kiragu’s race gained more impetus during President Uhuru Kenyatta’s visit at Kairuri stadium, Manyatta Constituency when the residents defied his attempt to endorse Jubilee Party candidates. The frenzied crowd even forced Mr Wambora to cut short his speech after they shouted him down. “We declined the six-piece suit format because we have experienced the damage it can do to the people. "Many of those who were elected on the basis of political party are embroiled in corruption and other ills. "People are now wise and will not elect someone just because they are in Jubilee,” Mr Kiragu said while welcoming the Head of State’s move. ROADSHe also thanked the President for reiterating that the tarmacking of the 100-kilometre ring road was ongoing, and was being implemented by the national government. The county government had already started tarmacking the road through a loan. “He has also added the Kairuri-Kangaru road for tarmacking and waived exorbitant fees being charged to local farmers by Warma. "He called for a probe into the non-payment of their dues since April,” Mr Kiragu said. AUDITMr Kiragu and other leaders also want a forensic audit of accounts of the Central Ngandori coffee society, where more than 5,000 farmers have not been paid for the beans they delivered last year. “We want it handled by the national government since they are the ones who are in charge of the police. We cannot trust the county government with such an issue,” Mr Kiragu said. In a ruling made in Nairobi, Mr Mbogholi referred the matter to the court’s Judicial Review division. PROTESTSHe also directed the applicant to serve IEBC and Party of National Unity, named as respondent and interested party respectively, and file a substantive motion within 21 days. On Thursday, hundreds of Mr Kiragu supporters held peaceful protests in Embu town, before storming the local IEBC offices to air their grievances. Embu County is cosmopolitan but mainly consists of Embu, Mbeere, Kamba and Kikuyu communities. CONTESTANTSThe Embu side has produced four aspirants, Mr Wambora (Runyenjes), Dr Kumantha (DP, Runyenjes), Mr Kiragu (Manyatta) and former Transport PS Cyrus Njiru, who is an Independent candidate. The Mbeere side has two gubernatorial candidates, Mr Kivuti and Mr Muriuki. Mr Wambora dropped current Deputy Governor Dorothy Nditi as running mate and picked David Kariuki, who hails from Manyatta, while Mr Kivuti is to be deputised by former Manyatta MP Emilio Kathuri.  