Dr Evans Kidero now wants the electoral commission and the media to stop relaying the city’s gubernatorial poll results until all the relevant forms have been verified by his agents. In a protest note sent to the County Returning Officer Cavince Owidi, Dr Kidero’s county chief agent said: "The purported results relating to the Nairobi governorship elections are being released outside the constitutional and statutory framework of the Elections Act 2011." "As the chief agent, I have not participated or been consulted on the process," Mr Owidi said. BOGUS The results displayed on the electoral agency's portal show the incumbent trailing Mr Mike Sonko of Jubilee who has 826,461 votes while the former has 661,958 votes. Earlier, Dr Kidero had described the results as "a sham and do not reflect the will of the people". "I will not accept the results until a new physical recount of all the ballot boxes from all the polling stations in the city is done and the accompanying forms duly signed by all the agents," Dr Kidero said. UNOFFICIAL However, Mr Wafula Chebukati, the chairman of the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission, said in a press conference that the results are not official. "Aspersions have been cast on the result transmission by some of our stakeholders. "We would want to state that the results on the screen are not the official results," Mr Chebukati said. READ: IEBC explains 'unofficial' results - VIDEO He added that the only official results are those contained in Forms 34A and B from the polling stations and constituency tallying centres respectively. HACKINGNonetheless, Dr Kidero claimed that the IEBC's database had been hacked to give the incumbent Senator the lead. A similar allegation was repeated by ODM's Nairobi candidate Edwin Sifuna who is behind Mr Johnson Sakaja in the polls. Mr Sifuna has 665,760 votes and the latter 801,879 votes. "There is obvious evidence of subversion of the will of the people. There was active interference," Mr Sifuna claimed. READ: Sonko, Sakaja lead in Nairobi DOCUMENTS Mr Owidi is also asking to be provided with forms 34B, 37B and 37C by the returning officer. The law requires that form 37B, which contains the results of the governor from the constituency level, must be scrutinized and issued to all the candidates. The county returning officer then verifies the details before keying them in form 37C, which is the declaration of the governorship results.  