When is the last time you changed your mind? We change our shoes and clothes every day. In the course of our lives we change where we live, schools and even friends. But how often do we challenge ourselves to change our minds or how we think? I would say, not enough. I came across a quote the other day that said people inevitably grow older but not necessarily grow up. If we look at the way we think, this might just be true. WHEN THINGS GET BAD, CHANGE PERSPECTIVELet me tell you about Wendy Wendy runs a marketing consultancy business and she has been feeling stuck at work. She started the business eight years ago and has a team of 10. The last two years have been hard, and more so the last three months, because of the elections. Wendy has been surviving on her overdraft to meet costs. She feels overwhelmed and has joined the ongoing conversations about the difficulty of running a business at this point in time. She has also witnessed bigger companies closing down or downsizing. Things look bad and she is feeling the strain emotionally, physically, mentally and every other way that you can think of.Sometimes, the only way to get yourself out of a tight spot is look at it through different lenses. How do we do this? I advised Wendy to stop thinking her situation was unusual or special. I run a business and can completely relate to what Wendy is experiencing, and so can countless other business owners. Just because you are going through something difficult does not mean there is anything wrong with your life. It means you are normal. Life was never meant to smooth running all the way. You would be surprised at the weight of problems that the people you think have it all together are carrying. CLEAR YOUR MIND Secondly, when you realise that it is normal to have problems, you stop trying to fix it in panic. It is okay not to have the perfect solution today. Wendy is overwhelmed because her problems have become the constant song in her head. She sleeps on them, wakes up to them and spends all day talking about them. This is not a great environment for creativity and solutions. Wendy’s approach is like trying to fill a water bottle that is already full. There is no space for fresh water. If we fill our minds with worry and negative thoughts, we will not end up in a different place. You get what you think about. To change our minds, we have to clear the junk in there. Find a practice that works for you. Wendy starts her mornings reaching for her phone to access her social media – and so she starts with an influx of bad news. No wonder she is in despair. She has now decided to spend at least 30 minutes meditating every morning, FRESH OUTLOOK With a clearer and less judgmental mind, Wendy will now be able to see that she has what it takes to get through this. She has a great, committed team. Many businesses don’t make it to eight years but she has. This is not the first business challenge that she has had to go through. She has great networks. It may be difficult at the moment but she has some down time for the next month or so. She can recharge and reorganise her organisation. So there is an opportunity even in this difficult period. Wendy left our conversation willing to change how she looked at her situation. I believe that challenges come with the resources to meet them, and everybody always has something they can use. The resources just may not look like what we expect. A changed mind can see the available resources and also the opportunity in the challenge. Our minds are our most important asset and sometimes the only thing we have to get through a difficult situation. Protect, refresh and change it.  