About a month ago, Daily Nation s DN2 magazine published a story about a 20-year-old woman who was hit by a bullet that had been meant for a suspect that had escaped from a police station.Anne Wanjiru survived, and was taken to hospital, where she was admitted for a week and then released. The doctors at the private hospital where she had sought treatment told her and her distraught parents that the bullet, still loadged in her body, was too close to her spinal cord, making operation highly risky . If anything, they informed them, they lacked the equipment needed to perform the operation. The only option, they were further informed, was to have the operation done abroad. Estimated cost? Sh6 million.As the family agonised over how to raise this money, Wanjiru was expected to go for fortnightly checkups. A year and six months later after that unfortunate incident, having spent over Sh1 million, Anne s family was yet to raise the amount needed for the operation. In their desperation, they decided to tell their story in the hope that kind Kenyans would come to their aid and help them raise this money.A day after the story was published, the writer of the story received an e-mail from Dr Peter Bird, a surgeon at Kijabe AIC Hospital. He wrote that from looking at the X-rays (we had published them) there was nothing complicated about the surgery as had been claimed, even though he would need to take a look at the scans and X-rays to be certain. To cut a long story short, Anne had the surgery on August 9, this month, at Kijabe AIC Hospital surgery that took a mere 20 minutes, and which cost her family a total of Sh18,560.Doctor Bird, the head of surgery at the hospital, would later explain to the writer that any reasonably trained surgeon could have performed the simple surgery. In his opinion, there were two possible reasons for referring Anne abroad: medical incompetence, or corruption. Reason number two, he said, a common scam in our medical institutions, was more likely. This is where unethical medical staff are paid by overseas medical facilities to refer patients for treatment that is readily available here, and at a fraction of the quoted cost.How outrageous. Even more outrageous is that this worst form of deception, which the media had reported before, has been going on for years, right under the noses of authorities who should be protecting Kenyans like Anne and her family from such heartless scammers.Anne s unfortunate story is not the first, nor the last; it is just one in a sea of similar stories. And it brings to mind Joseph Mworia s story, which we published in 2014. Then 36-years-old, Joseph had spent Sh3.6 million in search of a cure for a mysterious disease that caused him such agonising pain, he dreaded being touched because the terrible pain would ran out of control. After eight years in this unrelenting painful prison, and after consulting five doctors, including a top neurosurgeon, in desperation, his wife convinced him to try Kijabe AIC Hospital.He did, but only to appease her. That was sometime in April 2014. He got there at 8 am, and by 3 pm the same day, the illness that had subjected him to so much agony for eight years, was diagnosed glomus tumour, he was told, a rare benign tumour of the blood vessels, especially concentrated at the tips of fingers and toes. The surgery, which was performed three days later, took just 25 minutes and cost him Sh21,000. The relief was instant. Suddenly, he was no longer in pain. I should also tell you that when he was admitted at the hospital, he deposited Sh30,000, and on discharge, a nurse brought him a refund form for Sh9,000 yes, my eyes too popped out in disbelief when I read that part.From just these two incredible stories, it is obvious that we have two big problems in the medical sector the first is one of incompetence, which is responsible for the many misdiagnoses we keep hearing and reading about. The second is unscrupulous medical staff, who collude with medical facilities overseas to shamelessly rob Kenyans of money they do not have, causing heartache, suffering and financial ruin in the process. This is unacceptable, and the authorities concerned should hold those responsible to account. They shouldn t be allowed to go scot-free. [email&#160;protected]; Twitter: @cnjerius. The writer is the Editor, MyNetwork, in the Daily Nation ***FEEDBACKNo life should be lost just because of an election. And we the voters have to respect other people s opinion and choice of their favourable candidate. To all affected my heart felt condolences.Martin I have really missed you. Thank God with me, I am now done with my studies and awaiting the results. I have kept abreast of all your articles. Concerning last week s piece I agree with you. No one should lose life because of elections. It is so unfair and painful. In my county, life continues as usual yet in some places, it is not so. I lack the words to say especially to those who have lost their loved ones during this period. An election should unite people together and not the other way round. Wacera Hi Caroline, I just want to thank you for the great pieces you have been writing every Sunday. They are motivating. Keep up with the work well done. Gregory I agree with you Carol, even one life lost is too many. You still reach out. Sharing love one Kenyan at a time. Each of us do our little thing. It is easier to love than to hate, have a blessed week.Gladys. Thank you for your article last week, I couldn t have said it better I wish we could hold on to peace like we do when we don t have elections.Esther email print email print