One morning when she was eight years old, Regina Mwangi tried to swing her legs off the bed but  discovered she couldn’t; they felt like lead. Alarmed, the last-born of eight children called out to her mother. The two sat in silence, mother fearing the worst, Regina barely aware of what was going on. But it wasn’t entirely unexpected. For several weeks Regina’s family had noticed that her gait was becoming increasingly sluggish. Her parents had taken her to several doctors, none of whom could diagnose her illness. What baffled both the doctors and her family  was that her legs seemed perfectly healthy. “I used to run, walk,” says Regina with only the slightest hint of pain. “As the years went by, I began dragging my feet when walking, which saw me wear out a good number of pairs of shoes quickly. I couldn’t understand what was happening because I was young and thought it was something minor that would soon go away.” SURGERY In 2005, Regina was booked for surgery at the Kijabe Mission Hospital, courtesy of the Association of the Physically Disabled of Kenya (APDK), whose doctors had found out that her disability was caused by a back problem. But the surgery was fraught with risks, including death, so the family decided to forego the treatment. Having made peace with what life had dealt her, Regina and her family resolved to make the best of the situation. “My sister would carry me to and from school,” she says. When you meet Regina, 23, the first thing you notice is her ready smile. Beautiful and with a sunny disposition, she is the picture of a young woman on the go. SUPPORT Her comportment is as much about the love and support she has received over the years as it is about an ingrained fortitude that keeps her going. Regina is the face of “NikoEducatable” (I am educatable) a campaign that raises money to educate young people with disabilities and empower them to live fulfilling lives. The initiative operates under the auspices of a local charity, Action Network for the Disabled (Andy). As the campaign’s brand ambassador, Regina has been giving motivational talks in schools and on  TV. It is a role she has taken up with enthusiasm. “God gives you strength and compensates in other ways,” she says. “I want to touch and impact lives.” Regina, who is studying international relations at the United States International University in Nairobi on an academic scholarship granted by the institution, sees her current role in NikoEducatable as an extension of a chain-link of goodwill. After completing  primary school at Joytown School in Thika,  she  joined secondary school courtesy of the Wings to Fly scholarship programme of the Equity Group Foundation. SCHOLARSHIP “Getting the scholarship was a big thing for me,” she says. “From there I knew I could pursue my dreams. When you are given much, much more is expected of you.” At college, Regina participates in clubs and does her washing, never allowing her disability to define her. Her top priority is to dispel stereotypes and the way the public views people with disabilities. “Society looks at us as if we are inadequate, as if we  lack something, but with time I have gathered strength and built enough self-esteem to shun any negative perceptions of me.” Growing up, Mugure dreamt of becoming a news anchor. Though she is taking a different course, she still plans to pursue media studies, and appearing on TV has opened her eyes to other possibilities  in the field. SOCIAL MEDIA The response has been overwhelming. Hardly a day goes by without someone writing her a message on her social media accounts. “People relate when they know you are real, when they learn about your story,” she says. This doesn’t mean that her journey has been smooth. Society has been accused of a condescending attitude towards people not considered “whole”. The experience has not been limited to hushed remarks or spiteful comments, but in mobility as well. Few storied residential or commercial buildings have ramps or bespoke elevators. “I would like to see this enforced. It can get very difficult getting around, especially for  a person who uses a wheelchair. “Regina is a perfect example of how education is vital and empowering for people living with disabilities. Through the campaign we look forward to empowering many others,” says Nancy Nteere, the Andy project manager. RECURRING DREAM Over the years, especially since her teens, Regina has had a recurring dream. In it, she is walking unaided. “Surprisingly several friends have also had the same dream, the details are almost identical,” Regina says laughing. “In the past I would get discouraged but nowadays the dreams inspire me to continue living and believing. Who knows…” “What if you were to walk again?” I ask.  She mulls this for a moment, entertaining the prospect. FLIGHT It is not as easy as it might seem, she says, because on the  one hand it would be good to imagine flight, walking along  the street in her high heels, walking on her own, the clop of her shoes on the pavement as she hurries for a coffee date. She understands how this would feel; after all, there was a time she could walk. Then a fetching smile breaks across her face. She has few misgivings: “I once asked God why this happened to me. But you know, I have thought about this. If I were given the option today, to walk or remain as I am; to lose the person I’ve been, to people I have met….if I were to become another different Regina, I’d rather remain the way I am.”  To donate to the campaign, go to : NikoEducatable  