It appears that a turnaround of fortunes at AFC Leopards will require much more than a change of tacticians. New coach Robert Matano has managed one win in three league games and on Sunday, his hopes of a recovery took a hit as Ingwe lost 1-0 loss to Bandari, their fifth loss in eight games.While Gor Mahia, Sofapaka, Kakamega Homeboyz, Tusker, Nakumatt and Nzoia Sugar won their matches, Leopards lost 1-0 to Bandari on Sunday. And nothing sums up Matano s growing frustration than an incident in the dying moments of Sunday s match when Ugandan Allan Kateregga charged the coach and engaged him in an animated verbal exchange that only ended with goalkeeper Ian Otieno pulling the striker away from their coach. Kateregga, making his first appearance after about two months out with injury, was reacting to Matano s decision to withdraw him from the match after just 20 minutes of play. The outspoken Ugandan had been introduced as a second half substitute shortly after the restart, only to be pulled out in the 88th minute. Afterwards, a frustrated Matano blasted Kateregga and called him an under-performer . Kateregga was a non-performer! His passes were inaccurate and I had to make a second decision to replace him, Matano, the third coach to handle Ingwe this year, said. While Kateregga twice shot wide in the match, his performance can hardly be the cause of all of Ingwe s shortcomings this season. The 13-time champions have won just five of their 19 games so far, a situation that has left them standing just five places above bottom-placed Muhoroni Youth and Mathare United.The club has won just one of their last 11 league games.Meanwhile, Leopards' bitter rivals Gor have maintained their fine run at the weekend. Gor moved four points clear at the top last weekend with a 2-0 win over Muhoroni Youth in Kisumu. WEEKEND RESULTSGor Mahia 2-0 Muhoroni Youth (Kisumu, 3pm)Kakamega Homeboyz 2-1 Kariobangi Sharks (Mumias, 3pm)Sofapaka 3-0 Thika United (Afraha, 2pm)AFC Leopards 0-1 Bandari (Afraha, 4.15pm) Chemelil Sugar 1-1 Zoo Kericho (Chemelil Sports Complex, 1pm)Nzoia Sugar 1-0 Posta Rangers (Sudi, 3pm)Sony Sugar 1-1 Mathare United (Awendo, 3pm)Tusker 2-1 Western Stima (Kinoru, 3pm)Ulinzi Stars 0-1 Nakumatt (Afraha, 3pm) email print email print It is a game Leopards will rue for a long time as they squandered a dozen chances.