Mr Christopher Msando, the slain Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission ICT manager, was strangled, revealed a post-mortem examination conducted on Wednesday. Chief government pathologist Johansen Oduor said: “He died from strangulation and he also had incisions on his right arm, but the rest of the body was intact.” The postmortem examination at Lee Funeral Home in Nairobi, which was conducted between 12pm and 4pm, was also witnessed by a private pathologist and some of Mr Msando’s relatives. The ICT boss went missing on Friday evening and his body was found together with that of 21-year-old Carol Ngumbu at Muguga Forest in Kikuyu on Saturday. BEST DETECTIVES Investigations into the murders continued on Wednesday, with acting Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i saying the best detectives were on the case. The detectives, the Nation learnt, are keen on completing a trail of Mr Msando’s final movements, hoping they will find out the route he took after his car was last captured by CCTV cameras on the road. Police believe another woman captured by the cameras in Mr Msando’s vehicle may hold the key to the murder puzzle.    With the help of mobile phone service providers, detectives also want to trace the last points of contact before his cell phones went silent. Police were yesterday looking for his phones. The body was found stripped to the underwear and officers want to get a hold of the clothes he wore that night to extract DNA material helpful in tracking down the killers. SOCIAL MEDIA At the mortuary, the family asked Kenyans on social media to show consideration and stop posting malicious comments. “We are appealing to them to please be responsible on social media as some of the things being posted are not true,” said the ICT manager’s elder brother Peter Msando. His brother said the family had set August 19 as the tentative burial date for Mr Msando.   “We had considered laying him to rest before elections but we realised this is not possible, then we settled on August 12 but we realised it will be three days after the election. So if everything goes well we will lay him to rest on August 19,” he said. SCOTLAND YARD He also asked the police to expedite the case and resolve it quickly, urging them to accept the help of the FBI and Scotland Yard if that would help conclude the case speedily. “We are also appealing to politicians to stop making remarks about him and if they have any information, they should give it to the police,” he said, adding that the family and the country at large had lost a brilliant mind whose career was shining. “We are deeply saddened, the family and country has lost a man with outstanding knowledge who career has been shining at every turn. We as a family are deeply shocked,” he said.   Medics describe her as reserved.