Q. I am a manager. An employee that reports to me has been working as the company clerk for the last six years. She seems comfortable in this position but I think that she has outgrown it. How do I talk to her about this bearing in mind that we don’t have a relationship beyond work? I must commend you for being a good manager who aspires to develop talent within the organisation and who is genuinely concerned about the career growth of your employees. That said, you must approach this discussion carefully, taking into account that she is comfortable in her current role, hence any change will upset her status quo. Break the ice by offering to buy her lunch or share a cup of tea in the office and have a friendly chat as you seek to find out her career aspirations. Through this discussion, you will establish her interest, skill set and competencies. You will also identify training she could benefit from. You could also raise the matter during routine performance discussions as a way of encouraging her to expand her horizons and try a new role. Discuss with her the possibility of her taking up a stretch goal that is unrelated to her current role to test her capability and encourage her to apply for vacant positions suitable to her when they arise. Give her a chance to act in a different role when an opportunity arises, this way, you will help her build her confidence. It would also help if you identified an employee who is more senior than her and who is progressing well in their career and link them up for mentorship. It is usually advisable to maintain a professional relationship with your direct reports, otherwise it might be difficult to discharge your role as a manager. As you do this, be open to the fact that she might not be willing to take up other responsibilities. If this is the case, then you can consider enriching her current role by adding more responsibilities, which will force her to use more of her competencies and skill set. This way, she will still be in her comfort zone while you will get a chance to further motivate her through these additional responsibilities.  