President Uhuru Kenyatta and his Deputy William Ruto on Tuesday defended their four years in power, saying their track record would be adequate to get them re-elected for another term in next Tuesday’s General Election. In their vote-hunting mission in Uasin Gishu, Bungoma and Baringo counties, they defended their time in power, saying they had a lot to show for it. They accused the opposition leaders of propagating falsehoods about their administration. In Uasin Gishu County, the Jubilee team held a rally at 64 Stadium a week after Nasa led by its presidential candidate endorsed the re-election of Governor Jackson Mandago. “We have revived several projects which were run down by our opponents and the electorate will be making a big mistake by voting for them in next week’s General Election,” said President Kenyatta. He cited the revival of New KCC, Webuye based Rai Paper Mills and the Kenya Breweries new plant in Kisumu. MANDAGO The leaders took the opportunity to endorse Governor Mandago for a second term barely a week after Nasa endorsed him at the same venue. “From next year, our children will have free education from Form One to Form Four,” said President Kenyatta. He said that any youth graduating from vocational institutions and universities will have their one year internship paid by the government as from next year if they win next Tuesday’s General Election. READ: Uhuru speaks on Msando murder “Let us have peaceful elections and I am ready to accept the verdict of the electorate,” said President Kenyatta. The leaders also rooted for a six piece pattern in the region with all the aspirants being lined up before the public. The President also launched the Sh5 billion Cheplaskei by-pass which is expected to decongest Eldoret town. FERTILIZER Mr Ruto said that more than 300 kilometres of roads were being refurbished in Eldoret town alone, adding that the newly re-opened Rivatex East Africa in Eldoret has employed 3,000 people. “The Jubilee Government has done a lot for Kenyans for the four years. Our opponents have no development agenda for Kenya,” said the DP. The Jubilee Government, he said, will lower the cost of fertiliser from Sh1, 800 to Sh1,200 from December this year to motivate farmers to increase crop productivity. READ: Buzeki dismisses Nasa backing of Mandago He said the government set aside Sh30 billion to construct a new Teaching Referral hospital in Eldoret to decongest the current Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital. While addressing rallies in Mateka in Bumula and Amtalla Stadium in Kimilili town, President Uhuru and Mr Ruto took issue with the opposition for allegedly undermining development projects initiated by the Jubilee administration. OPPOSITION “Let the opposition leaders accept that we have tried in our development initiatives instead of propagating lies that we have done nothing for Kenyans,” said President Kenyatta. He appealed to Bungoma residents to vote as a block for Jubilee. “We want to improve your lives, don’t mess with your future, vote in Jubilee back,” he said while promising to increase funding to Kibabii University. Mr Ruto said the opposition has nothing new to offer but empty rhetoric. In Baringo, the leaders announced that the Jubilee Government will construct more than 250 kilometers of tarmac roads. Reports B. Bii, W. Kipsang, T. Oteba and Florah Koech   Kenyatta and Ruto make last attempt at swinging opposition stronghold to their side.