The 2017 London World Athletics Championships are finally here with us and starting Friday, we embark on the journey to defend the title we won in Beijing two years ago.First things first. I wish Team Kenyan the best of luck as they seek to defend the title. Yes, we have had a share of challenges in the last two months, but I guess such situations would most likely make one stronger.As we all know, the exit of world 800m champion and record holder, David Rudisha, was a major blow for Kenya but I believe we can still soldier on. Rudisha was an integral part of the team not only because he was expected to defend his title but because he was more of an inspiration to the entire squad.But all said and done, I believe the remaining three athletes in the event - Emmanuel Korir, Kipyegon Bett and Ferguson Rotich - can still make up for Rudisha s exit by delivering gold.However, as I said last week, we do not really need to dwell on individuals because we have a team of 48 athletes who will all be targeting gold and it is worth encouraging all of them.Expectations are high among Kenyans, especially after topping the world in Beijing in 2015 and Team Kenya will have no choice but to deliver.Besides, the only way they can steal the thunder from the ongoing political campaigns is by delivering the best results. I am sure Kenyans would like that because this will work in diluting the current political divisions and tensions. I must say the event is very timely, considering that we can opt to use it to heal the nation at the end of the elections.We are aware that the whole world is prepared for the global event but I want to urge Team Kenya coaches to act as the drivers and instill the best tactics in the team. Nowadays, it is not about how fast you run but how mathematical and tactful you are. Of course, everyone can run fast but victory most of the times boils down to team tactics.I also have a feeling that this time our women runners will perform better. Gauging their psyche, especially the 1,500m to marathon runners, I see a number of gold medals.At least, I can already bank on Faith Chepngetich (1,500m), Hellen Obiri (5,000m), Beatrice Chekoech, Celphine Chespol (3,000m steeplechase), Edna Kiplagat, Helah Kiprop and Flomena Cheyech (marathon) to deliver gold medals. I expect their male counterparts to do the same despite the challenges.Finally, allow me to thank the government for the support and I hope they will extend the same incentives given to the youth side to the senior team as well. email print email print In fact, there has been more said about Moen Ali than Usain Bolt.