The Nairobi Provincial Cricket Association Super League champions, Stray Lions, host Nairobi Gymkhana at Peponi School, Ruiru, this weekend. The star-studded Lions start as favourites to win on Sunday as they boast experienced players in their side, among them all-rounders Collins Obuya and Shem Ngoche who are both members of the national squad. Former national team skipper, Maurice Odumbe, 48, is a also member of the squad. The experienced Odumbe still manages to get at least three wickets in a game. And his vast knowledge of the game comes handy to the youthful players in the Stray Lions squad, who have benefited from his pieces of advice. Nairobi Gymkhana also boasts talented players but they have taken rather a long period of time to click with both bat and ball. Gymkhana also has three national team players in the side - Karan Kaur, Rushab Patel and Lucas Oluoch. Kanbis, who are lying second on the standings behind Stray Lions although the two teams are both on 78 points, will travel to Sikh Union, who have proved to be giant-killers in the league. Kanbis rely heavily on the batting of Kenya’s skipper, Rakep Patel and Nelson Odhiambo. Gurdeep Singh, who is also a national team player, will be Sikh Union's main batsman in the match. Sir Ali Muslim Club, who have recruited a number of national team players at both senior and Under-19 levels, among them Kenya’s national team coach Thomas Odoyo, will be home to Swamibapa. Swamibapa, who are third in the table of standings with 74 points, start as hot favourites to win the match. Swamibapa has a good number of both current and former national team players in the side who include former skipper Morris Ouma, Alex Obanda, Elijah Otieno, James Ngoche, Nehemiah Odhiambo and Lameck Odhiambo. At Nairobi Club, Kongonis host Cutchi Leva in a game that could go either way. Relegation-threatened Ruaraka will be home to Obuya Academy. Full Points Table: Stray Lions 78,  Kanbis 78,  Swamibapa 74, Sikh Union 64, Sir Ali Muslim Club 43, Obuya Academy 28, Nairobi Gymkhana 27, Kongonis 25, Cutchi Leva 12 and Ruaraka 10.  