The National Super Alliance (Nasa) secretariat has been urged to speed up payments for agents who represented the coalition’s presidential candidate in last week’s polls. According to the Mr Dickson Manyara, who was the Nasa election coordinator for Nyandarua, and his Laikipia counterpart Abraham Lemanyishoe, they are yet to receive the cash to pay the over 2,000 agents in the two counties. PRESSURE The two lamented that they were under great pressure from the agents who were demanding their dues. “We are calling on the secretariat to give us a timeline when the agents are going to get the money or call a meeting to make the matter clear,” Mr Manyara said. “We have been under immense pressure from these agents who think that we have received the money on their behalf and sat on it,” he said. He said each of 650 agents in Nyandarua was not only demanding the Sh4,800 on  the polling day but also transport and allowance for the one-day training they attended prior to the elections. JUBILEE “They were to get Sh1, 800 each for the training session but they were also not paid,” he said. Mr Lemanyishoe said he hoped the money would be paid soon after he forwarded a list his agents on Tuesday. “In Laikipia, we had over 1,000 agents who are expecting Sh4,800 each. We hope that the secretariat will speed up the process in the next two days as they also deal with other issues,” he said. They noted that the situation had been worsened by reports that the Jubilee agents had already started receiving their money. THREATS “Our people are getting impatient which is a normal thing after reports that Jubilee agents have started receiving their money,” added Mr Lemanyishoe. Mr Manyara said they had received threats from some of the impatient agents, forcing some constituency chief agents to go into hiding. “We have however learnt that it is not only us who are affected because we are also receiving similar complaints from our colleagues in Tharaka-Nithi, Meru and Embu counties,” he said.   Nasa leader terms Uhuru Kenyatta win as "computer-generated".