President Kenyatta has threatened to punish chiefs working with the opposition National Super Alliance (Nasa). Mr Kenyatta on Wednesday said his administration had not only given members of the provincial administration a lifeline but also boosted their positons. PERKS "You should appreciate that the allowances you are drawing and the motorcycles you ride are properties of Jubilee,” he said during a Jubilee campaign in Makueni. “The others had sidelined you.” He was referring to opposition leaders’ push for the provincial administration to be scrapped after the adoption of the 2010 Constitution. The Raila Odinga-led camp in the past wanted the positions of chief, assistant chief, district officer, district commissioner and provincial commissioner scrapped so that county governments could assume more of the devolved functions The last three posts have since been realigned and renamed deputy county commissioner, county commissioner and regional coordinator, respectively. THREAT Mr Odinga has also changed his tune and has been courting the administrators in Nasa campaigns countrywide. Mr Kenyatta threatened to take action against pro-Nasa chiefs if he wins the August 8 General Election. "We know what you are doing and we shall deal with you after the elections," he said. It should be noted that motorbikes and other working tools and equipment the chiefs use are public assets, not properties of the ruling party. His threats come amid a clash between Jubilee and the opposition over the use of state officers and resources in campaigns. Mr Odinga's camp has accused Jubilee of using State officers and resources to court voters and scheme how to deny Nasa victory. RIGGING The president also opposed the Nasa adopt-polling-station plan, saying it will not be allowed on Election Day. The opposition has urged its supporters to stay put at polling stations after casting their ballots to guard votes and prevent rigging. But Mr Kenyatta said voters should leave polling stations immediately after voting. A similar order has been issued by the police and the electoral commission. In his Makueni campaign, the Jubilee leader exuded confidence that he would defeat Mr Odinga in the first round. POLLS Speaking in Wote town, Mr Kenyatta said his development record would earn him re-election. "This time round, we will send Kitendawili home," he said, referring to Mr Odinga. The latest opinion polls show Mr Kenyatta and Mr Odinga neck and neck, with six days to the election. The president urged the Kamba community to ditch Nasa and join Jubilee. He also invited Mr Odinga's running mate Kalonzo Musyoka to Jubilee. DAM He said the government is committed to delivering the proposed Sh62 billion Thwake Dam project in the area. On completion, this project is expected to supply water to Makueni and Kitui counties and generate electricity for the proposed Konza Technology City in the area. "Already, work on Konza Technology City has started," he said.   From buying out voters to gerrymandering, it's very possible to steal a Kenyan election, technology notwithstanding.