Transforming your living space need not be expensive. It is possible to get your desired outcome on a budget. Take Edwina Mapenzi, for instance. The 22-year-old university student who works part-time decided to revamp her room after her father suggested it. TRANSFORMED STUDY “This room was originally a study. I used to share a room with my sister but after a while felt it was time to have my own room. It had a spare bed, so I slowly turned it to my room. I started watching YouTubers who shared videos of their rooms that were aesthetically pleasing. This gave me ideas on how I wanted to decorate the room. “I started making small changes before changing the colour of the wall by painting it white at my dad’s suggestion. I did that last year and this year I resolved to give it a complete makeover since my dad had facilitated the painting and installation of shelves. That was the beginning for me. “White is an easy, base colour; it works with everything. It could have been any other bright colour really, because bright colours open up small or cramped spaces. I was going for a black-and-white theme. “I then decided to go to get a new bed cover. I went to a shop in town that had a sale at the beginning of the year and bought a two-in-one comforter for the price of one. “After that, I decided to replace the curtains that had been there since I was a child. I went shopping for curtains in Toi Market. The first ones I came across were going for Sh3, 500 a pair, which was way above my budget. I decided to explore further and found a single one, which was going for Sh800. A major plus is that it was white, which went with the theme of my room. I found blinds for Sh400, but believe if I had searched further, I would have found some going for Sh150. REVAMPING A SPACE BEGINS WITH DECLUTTERING “Thereafter, I got two cushions for Sh100, and a third one for Sh70. I found cushion covers going for Sh50. I bought my pillows from Toi, where prices range between Sh250 andSh350. Tip: stuffed pillows make your bed look better. “Organisation helps you look and feel more put together. The shelves in my room help me to easily access my clothes and books, and also reduces clutter. You can also use nice trays and baskets, which you can find at the Maasai Market, to keep your jewellery and stationery. “Later I would like to install frames, and paint them black-and-white. I would also like to have album covers on the walls. I have fairy lights that I want to put up next to the window. They will look pretty at night. I would also like to have a planner on another dead wall, which will help me plan my school routine. “If you want to revamp a space, begin by decluttering. It might take weeks or months, but it’s worth it. “Next, assemble a list of what you want, record stuff, take pictures or create a board on Pinterest that can help you see what you like. “Be open. Nairobi has almost everything you need; you just need to look hard. For example, the rack on which I keep my hair supplies and Knick knacks was something that was being thrown away. Look out for anything that can work with what you have. “Have fun while at it. Always look out for sales. Whenever possible, buy things on sale unless it is absolutely necessary.”  