Q: I have been dating my man for about half a year now. He and I are friends on Facebook so I usually tag him in my pictures. His ex recently friend-requested me and after I accepted, she inboxed me telling me that my man is always in her inbox trying to meet her. She even sent me screen shots of the conversation. When I asked him about it, he blocked her. I am so confused. Are they cheating together? Is she trying to take my man? What’s going on here and what should I do?  READERS’ ADVICE She is doing this because she want him back or else she is taking a revenge to ensure your relationship breaks as she feel this guy took an advantage of her and wasted her when they were together. Don’t rush to take action; just investigate and you will find the truth. James Njoki, via email. An ex should always remain an ex. Communication with an ex is bound to revive things and also bring trust issues to any relationship. Unless a child is involved, whereby communication should be limited to the children’s welfare, communication with an ex should be strictly avoided. Discuss the issue with your boyfriend and let him know that you are not okay with the issue of him making communication with his ex. He should keep her away and protect your relationship. Calvin Queens, via email. Facebook and any other social media is a catalyst to destroying relationships including the ones that have higher chances of surviving. Your man still has something for his ex, thanks to the screenshot that she sent to you. Consider having a talk with both of them separately and try to understand the reasons behind their break-up. They might be having feelings for each other even after breaking up, something that is likely to bring them back together. If the two give you varying reasons that led to their break-up, then you will have to make a choice that should not leave you hurt. Juma Felix, via email. You’ve only been together six months – that’s not long enough to be having this sort of drama. That means that your man may still be attached to his ex. However he has made the effort to block her; see how it goes from there. Remember, there are other ways for them to meet – they can even communicate on WhatsApp or text message, even email. You can never be too sure. Go with what your gut is telling you. If you think he is cheating, then he is. Waithera Ondiek, via email. EXPERT ADVICE Maurice Matheka, a relationship counsellor answers:My opinion based on the information you have shared is that there is still communication going on between the two of them. As you have stated, she sent you screen shots of their chats so it’s evident that something is going on, whether innocent or not. Perhaps your boyfriend in the short time you have dated has not come round to telling you that part of him is still connected to his past. If he is going to the extent of reversing the blame when you bring it up, that in my book is a sign of a degree of guilt. At this point if the ex persists with inboxing you then you need to go with what you instincts are telling you. In your predicament, more often than not, it’s a case of where there is smoke there is fire. Next week’s dilemma I am 26 years old and I don’t like relationships. I have no problem getting to know someone as a friend, but once he tells me his intentions, or that he is in love with me, then I get very scared and I don’t want anything to do with him. If I do give him a chance, then after a short period, like two weeks, I am done with it. I start giving excuses whenever he wants to meet. I get especially disgusted when the subject of sex comes up. I can’t imagine myself having sex with a boyfriend. These days I don’t waste anyone’s time; I tell them upfront that I will be bored within a short period of time. Do I have a problem?  