He has grown over the years in versatility in various fields, having been cast in internationally acclaimed productions such as the movie, Veve and produced hits for his own band as well as other musical talents in the country. His latest project is SaWA, Savara Women’s Advancement Program. 1.What motivated you to start SaWA? Why women? I had really wanted to do something for my community for a long time, but I didn’t know what. Every time I went back to my hood, I would hand out money, but then I thought to myself that this would only have a short-term impact, so I needed to come up with something that would have a long-lasting impact. I figured that I could only do this through changing the handout mentality, but I couldn’t do it on my own. I didn’t agonise over who to partner with because the answer was obvious. Women. My mother shaped me into the man I am today; she is the one that taught me to respect and treat women well. It was therefore obvious to me that to accomplish my vision, I needed to work with women. When I’m travelling and touring and being a rockstar, it feels good to know that there are people I am helping apart from my family, and in a more lasting way. 2. What’s your favourite part about making music? What legacy do you want to leave behind with your music? Production. I am a music producer and a singer. I play the bass guitar now, I just enjoy the composition part. When it comes together. I especially enjoy working on a difficult song! My favourite part about producing a song is when it gives me a headache, but even in the midst of the frustration, I know that there’s that one thing that can take it to the next level. Legacy? First of all, we’ve changed the way live music is viewed in Nairobi. I’m proud of that. I would be proud of leaving a legacy of music education – it hasn’t been promoted in this country. Where freedom is granted for the next group of musicians. By freedom, I mean freedom of expression, accessibility to music equipment and facilities from a very young age. I listened to music thanks to my parents, but I wasn’t given the opportunity to study music, say in class five. Had I been given a music instrument then, what story would I be telling today? I also envision a legacy where my name is in every publication about how Sauti Sol changed music – not because I want to be praised, but because I made a remarkable impact in this space. 3.Do you guys get to rest? It seems as if you work non-stop! I had my first holiday early this year. My body was shutting down. We do work hard, but we enjoy the process because our work is not like work, where you wake up and go to the office and stay there from 8am to 5pm. Our work is fun. Our office is everywhere. In my apartment. On a plane. I can make music anywhere. I thank God for what I do. I’m not downplaying other jobs, but this one allows me to travel, meet different people, and enjoy my life. 4.What is your definition of a good citizen? Would you run for office? A good citizen is civil, cares about his country and his countrymen. A good citizen keeps his community clean – he does not litter. Please, don’t throw a banana peel or empty packet of yoghurt on the roadside after finishing it. That’s being irresponsible. Keenly read through manifestos before voting. Contribute to relevant debates on Twitter, Facebook and other social media channels. Be proud of your tradition. Exercise your various rights – there are many ways of being a good citizen. Would I run for office? I wouldn’t say no since I don’t know what the future holds, but right now, I wouldn’t even think about it because the politics in the country right now is very dirty. It’s full of sycophancy. It is not real. Sure, politics isn’t supposed to be real, but cut us some slack! What’s happening at the moment has left a bitter taste in my mouth. If I were to go into politics, I wouldn’t be the kind of politician we’re used to, the one that stands before people and incites and lies. I would probably choose policy making, influence behind closed doors. 5. You gentlemen are, ahem, quite fit; is working out as easy as you make it look? No it isn’t! You have to do it consistently until it becomes a part of you. I am into wellness. I like taking care of myself, and watch what I put into my body.  