Three Tana River County officials were killed by Al-Shabaab terrorists on Wednesday evening on the Malindi-Garsen-Lamu road. Four other people, including students, were injured. The 5.30pm attack occurred a few hours after the terrorists killed three other people when they ambushed a bus and a police escort vehicle at Nyongoro on the Lamu/Tana River border. INSPECTTana River Public Works chief officer Sammy Mwakisha Tola and quantity surveyor Chrispine Dulu perished alongside another employee during the raid. The three were travelling from Hola to Kipini to inspect ongoing street lighting projects before Mr Mwakisha’s Toyota Rav4 was sprayed with bullets. BURN The militants torched the vehicle and the officials were burnt beyond recognition. The bodies were taken to Malindi Star Hospital mortuary. “The driver of the vehicle tried to make a U-turn and head to Gamba but it was too late. The attackers torched the vehicle together with the occupants,” Linda Boni director Joseph Kanyiri said. SURVIVORSThree students are among four people who survived the attack. They sustained bullet wounds and were rushed to Malindi sub-county Hospital by Kenya Red Cross Society officials. HOLIDAY The students narrated to Nation at the hospital that they were travelling home from Malindi, Magarini and Minjila in Garsen for the August holidays. One of the students said the terrorists first attacked a bus, which was in front of them, but it sped off. “They then shot again at the police vehicle I was in and one of the bullets hit my leg," the student said. ESCAPEHe said the driver of the police vehicle did not stop despite the terrorists shooting at the tyres to deflate them. “Luckily, we managed to drive to Witu but I do not know what happened to others behind," he said. Malindi sub-county Hospital Medical Superintendent Hosan Ajuk confirmed to have received the bodies of three county officials and four gunshot wound victims at the facility. SECURITYDr Ajuk said one of the victims is in critical condition. “We received the victims at 8pm. Those admitted are two girls and two boys and their relatives have already arrived at the hospital,” he said. Mr Justus Yaa, the father of one of the victims, said his son was heading home in Kipini from school when he was informed that Al-Shabaab had attacked a bus. “We want the government to increase security on Witu-Lamu road to deter attacks,” he added. MANHUNTTana River police commander Walter Aliwa said police have launched a manhunt for the attackers. “The attack happened in Lamu and the search for the militants is ongoing there,” he said. Reported by Kalume Kazungu, Charles Lwanga, Mohamed Ahmed and Galgalo Bocha  