Kariobangi Sharks and 10-man Sony Sugar on Saturday sailed through to the semi-finals of GOtv Shield after beating Eldoret Youth and Bandari respectively in the quarterfinals at Nyayo National Stadium. Kariobangi Sharks dispatched lower-tier side Eldoret Youth 5-0, while Sony Sugar overcame Bandari 3-1 later at the same venue. The two teams will now face each other in the tournament’s semi-finals scheduled to be played early next month. Sharks were dominant over their lower-tier opponents throughout, although the Eldoret-based team also exhibited well orchestrated moves for a short period in the first half of the match. Sharks went ahead in the 15th minute through Masoud Juma, who finished off an earlier effort from Duke Abuya that had come off the palms of Eldoret goalkeeper Reagan Wanjala. Eldoret Youth’s best chance in the first half came in the 26th minute when Kevin Mwanzi dispatched a ferocious shot from outside the box, only for it to ricochet off the cross bar and out of danger. The second half was particularly daunting for the Eldoret-based team, as they conceded four goals in quick succession owing greatly to their haphazard defence. Abuya found the goal mouth empty in the 58th minute and doubled the advantage for Sharks, and thence began a flurry of goals for which no response was realised from Eldoret Youth. Juma easily outwitted his market must three minutes later and with only the goalkeeper to beat, got into position before placing the ball on the bottom right corner and with it completed a double. Sven Yidah then added the fourth goal in the 80th minute when he outran his marker and shot past Eldoret goalkeeper Reagan Wanjala. Ebrimma Sanneh put the last nail on the coffin with five minutes to go, thereby ending Eldoret Youth’s journey in this year’s domestic cup. In the subsequent match, Sony Sugar presented an uncharacteristically classy performance away from their inconsistent league performance this season. The sugar millers scored in the 14th minute when Mwana Yema scored from the rebound after Bandari goalkeeper Wilson Obungu had done everything to keep his earlier shot. Eight minutes later, the Salim Babu-coached side earned a penalty after Felly Mulumba felled Yema inside the box, and Amos Asembeka successfully converted to double their advantage. The Awendo-based team were awarded a second penalty in the 51st minute after Wilson Obungu tackled Yema unfairly inside the box, and Asembeka once again made no mistake in converting his spot kick. Baron Oketch scored the consolation goal for the dockers in the 79th minute when he took advantage of misplaced Sony goalkeeper Kevin Omondi. Second half substitute Jesse Obare was sent off in the 84th minute, forcing Sony to play with 10 men for the remaining duration of the game. “Today has been a disaster. I blame it on fitness. My players haven’t trained all week because of the General Election break ,” said Bandari coach Paul Nkata.   Otieno scored a brace in a span of six minutes.