We have seen reports some Kenyans are panicking and moving to what they consider safer grounds during this election. The security forces have tried to reassure us they are in control and so there is no need to panic. The truth of the matter is that many people, including foreigners, are apprehensive about the way things may turn out during and after the election. BULK PURCHASING One manager of a supermarket told me their customers are panicking and buying things in bulk. I do not blame them. Back in 2008 at the height of the post-election chaos, I got into a panic mood. One afternoon I drove into four petrol stations without getting any fuel. I got it only in the fifth. At that point I was desperate and so I can identify with those who are buying things to stock for the period of the elections. VIOLENCE It is experience that has taught us such tricks but there is a bigger question that begs answers. Have we Kenyans become so accustomed to violence that we have completely internalised it as part and parcel of the electoral process? We keep talking about the third liberation through which we re-established democratic institutions. RIGGING There are people who claim the bigger credit for the events that led to the culmination of this process. The one thing some of these people in the political class who were part of this liberation must do is to preach the truth that violence has no place in democracy. At the base of this internalised notion that violence has a place in the electoral process is the belief that cheating and rigging are part of the equation. ACTIVISTS Many of those same people who fought so hard for the Constitution we are now enjoying have demonstrated they have very little faith in the institutions established thereby. It is this lack of faith in institutions like the Judiciary, the electoral commission and so on and therefore disregard for the rule of law on the part of some leaders that leaves citizens feeling unsafe and unprotected. PANICIs it a wonder then that people would go into a panic mood at a time like this? After all they experienced 2008, 1997 and earlier in 1992. The stakes this time round are much higher and so the tendency to feel some politicians will go to any length is not all together misplaced. This might explain the panic. It is important that all Kenyans realise that after August 8, we all still need to move this country forward. It is Kenya that matters and not an individual leader. Vote wisely. Writer is Dean of Students at the University of Nairobi wamugundaw@uonbi.ac.ke  