Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua has extended a hand of friendship to his Wiper rival in last week’s elections, Ms Wavinya Ndeti, as he was sworn into office for a second term in a colourful ceremony attended by hundreds of residents and several political leaders. The same reconciliatory tone came from Mandera Governor Ali Roba, who also asked local opposition politicians to join him in serving the residents. The two governors were the first to be sworn into office following their re-election in the hotly contested poll, whose presidential results are set to be determined in the Supreme Court. CONTESTIn Machakos, Dr Mutua vanquished Ms Ndeti when he garnered 249,603 votes against her 203,141. During the swearing-in ceremony at the Machakos stadium on Thursday, Dr Mutua welcomed Ms Ndeti partnership saying he is ready to work with her to develop the county, despite the tough battle they had in the polls. “This competition was not between me and Wavinya Ndeti; she is a very good lady. It was between Kalonzo Musyoka and I. Wavinya was just being used,” Dr Mutua declared. MUTUA DECAMPEDDuring the campaigns, Ms Ndeti enjoyed the support of Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka and the National Super Alliance (Nasa). Ms Ndeti was also Dr Mutua’s main challenger in 2013. Dr Mutua said he was particularly elated to have won the gubernatorial seat through his new Maendeleo Chap Chap party, which he formed barely a year ago, after ditching Wiper. The governor said his re-election was ample proof to his “political haters” that the people he has been serving acknowledge his development record. ELECTRICITYThe governor said he is ready to work with all elected leaders regardless of their political leaning, but urged them to shun “politics of fighting development”. The governor promised to build roads, improve health care and ensure all houses had tapped water. He would also look for investors to buy transformers to boost supply of electricity in the county. Dr Mutua and his deputy Francis Wambua Maliti were sworn into office by Lady Justice Lilian Mutende and also signed certificate of governance and integrity in the presence of Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission deputy chief executive officer Michael Mubea. PEACESenator-elect Boniface Kabaka who won on a Chama Cha Uzalendo ticket and Women Representative-elect Joyce Kamene of Wiper party said they will work with the governor. Mr Maliti promised to be loyal to Dr Mutua and support him to complete development projects started by the governor in his first term. “We will deliver services to our people and I will always remain loyal to him,” Mr Maliti said. After the swearing in, the two leaders released white doves into the air as a sign of peace in the county. SERVICEIn Mandera, Governor Roba of Jubilee reached out to his erstwhile rivals asking them to focus on building the county as elections were over. “I would like to invite our competitors to join us in serving our people. For those who believe I wronged them in the race, I ask for forgiveness,” Mr Roba said. Mr Roba garnered 71,898 votes against Mr Hassan Noor Hassan of Economic Freedom Party (EFP) with 62,966 in the tight competition. ASSEMBLY POSITIONSMr Hassan, a former provincial commissioner fronted by local elders for the seat, had earlier threatened to challenge Mr Roba’s win but changed his minds later. “We underestimated our opponents and believed very strongly that we will win most of the seats but our brothers put up a very aggressive campaign that proved otherwise,” Mr Roba said. The EFP opposition won 17 county assembly seats with Governor Roba’s JP taking only 7. PROJECTSNone of the 17 EFP elected members of the assembly, the four MPs and Woman Rep attended Governor Roba’s inauguration ceremony officiated by Justice Chacha Mwita. EFP won four parliamentary seats as JP took two of Mandera’s six constituencies. Mr Roba promised to complete all the projects started in his first term, among them construction of the new county headquarters. Mr Mohamed Arai was also sworn in as deputy governor, taking over from Mr Omar Maalim, who heeded the elders advice to run for the Mandera East MP seat, which he won on an EFP ticket.   Ngilu says money to be used to repair grounded water trucks.