Devolution Cabinet Secretary Mwangi Kiunjuri has stirred discomfort in Laikipia politics with a section of candidates accusing him of interference and openly campaigning for a select group. The minister is accused of openly supporting incumbent Governor Joshua Irungu and using government relief food to entice voters to side with his preferred candidates. Disgruntled candidates led by independent gubernatorial candidate Ndiritu Muriithi and Kanu candidate for the Senate seat Maina Njenga claim the Mr Kiunjuri has been camping in the county for the last two weeks with the aim of enticing voters to elect his preferred candidates. STOP POLITICS The group which include MPs Wachira Karani (Laikipia), Mrs Jane Apollos (Laikipia woman rep), Mr Mutahi Kimaru (Laikipia East) and parliamentary candidates Onesmus Karenge (Laikipia West) issued a joint statement demanding that the minister desists from engaging in local politics. The leaders said Mr Kiunjuri should instead assume a national figure befitting his status and let the people of Laikipia decide on their future leaders without being influenced. “The Cabinet secretary has been camping in the county accompanying Governor Joshua Irungu in his campaigns where they have been distributing relief food to hundreds of families with [the] intention of luring voters to vote for his preferred candidates,” the statement read. “A CS is as public officer who should not involve himself in political campaigns. He has now left his office and has lowered himself to a campaign manager for Governor Irungu,” the leaders stated. RELIEF FOOD Mr Mathenge, who is also the chairman of Mr Muriithi’s campaign team, said it was disappointing for Mr Kiunjuri to take advantage of hunger across the county to distribute relief food in exchange for votes for his preferred candidate, Governor Irungu. They claimed the minister had smelt defeat of Jubilee candidates in the county in the election to be held next week and that was why he had come in to try and assist them. HARASSMENT Last week, Mr Mathenge claimed, the CS held a meeting with security agencies where he instructed them to harass, intimidate and arrest agents of certain candidates to give them room to manipulate the polls in favour of Mr Irungu. “We the candidates are very concerned that the activities and conduct of CS Kiunjuri are impacting negatively on the goodwill and support that the president and Jubilee enjoy in Laikipia,” he said. However, Mr Kiunjuri has denied the accusations insisting that he is looking for votes for the President and his deputy. “I am campaigning for the government I work for and those opposed to my move are sensing defeat and that is why they are crying foul,” he said at Wiyumiririe trading centre while distributing relief food. He urged Laikipia residents to only vote for the Jubilee candidates in the six elective positions.  