You have heard it before, but the first thing that employers look for in an interview is experience. Contrary to what many think, it is not as hard as you think to get three to four years of work experience. Also, you can start your work experience as soon as you finish high school or as soon as you start your schooling. Here is a list of ways to get that much-needed experience. 1. START A BUSINESS.There is no age limit to entrepreneurship. At times, the job experience you seek is one that you can create for yourself. Start your business operation. It could be as basic as sketching portraits, or fixing your neighbours’ electrical appliances and charging a fee. 2.VOLUNTEER It is not always about money. Volunteering opens you up to great networks of professionals and institutions, which regular employment may never give you. There are several ways to volunteer: Volunteer on research projects: there is always a team of professors of masters and PhD students researching on a thesis. You can work with them on their research either as a study subject or in data collection. Volunteer in your family and friends businesses: this exposes you to different business operational models. It offers a strong foundation for those who intend to be entrepreneurs. If you volunteer at two businesses in a year, by graduation you will have worked at eight different companies, in different capacities and learned some ‘dos’ and ‘don’ts’ in business.Volunteer at events: event organisers are constantly seeking volunteers. Event organising isn’t as simple as it seems, and organisations constantly need it as part of their operations. This is an ideal skill to learn. It is also a great way to meet new people, find out what jobs are available and also stretch your initiative. Volunteer with a charity: from children’s homes in your locality, elderly homes, to community-based organisations to local and international NGOs - just knock on their doors and ask to offer your time and/or service for free. 3. COLD CALLS AT OFFICES At times, all you require is to show initiative. There are numerous organisations seeking your skill set, but they don’t know you exist. Instead of sending a CV to a generic email address, go to the office and ask to speak to the human resource manager. If you are told he or she is busy, be persistent, sit at the reception, even if it means all day - and ensure you get an audience with the decision-maker. To win the decision maker over beyond your persistence is to prepare a convincing pitch to them on what you can offer the organisation based on your research of their needs. 4. ATTEND YOUR SCHOOL CAREER FAIRS Aside from the fun activities your peers organise and the great music, make the initiative to talk to organisations to find out what you can do with them. This is a nice casual setting to understand what the organisation needs. Better still, if you are really proactive, you can hand them your CV. 5. Build a blog and update regularly with what interests you Running a blog takes time and dedication. At times limited work experience in formal employment can be countered by a show of personal drive and initiative. Run a blog that is regularly updated, and professionally packaged. We live in a digital age, so companies are constantly finding unique ways to grow their target audiences and keep them engaged. Your blog or your blogging skills could be the answer they are looking for. 6.GIVE CONSTRUCTIVE FEEDBACK Organisations love it when they have cheerleaders who talk about them and provide them with constant feedback. Keep abreast with what they are doing, attend events and keep providing constructive feedback. This you can do easily via social media. Constructive feedback is not about blind praise, it is about providing honest and useful responses to what they are doing. Your persistence in this area will draw the organisation’s attention to you. This could actually land you work. 7. ATTEND NETWORKING EVENTS Most cities across the country run networking events for entrepreneurs and professionals. You can save some of your pocket money and pay your entry fee, which ranges from Sh500 upwards depending on the event. This is the place to network and discover where the opportunities are. 8. BRAND YOURSELF How you present yourself defines how you will be perceived. A great way to be perceived as a professional is as simple as having a well-designed business card. You may not have a website, but can set up a professional Facebook page and update your LinkedIn account. This is information you can share on your business card. A simple and unique business card to share can draw people’s attention. 9.FOR THE ASPIRING JOURNALISTS AND WRITERS - WRITE STORIES. It is that simple. Write articles and share with blog, magazine and newspaper editors. It may take months to get published, but be persistent. Guest blog on popular blogs to build your profile, a double win as a writer; you build your by-line and also steadily find your writing style. 10. WORK ON CAMPUS Work on campus sometimes offers students a tuition fee grant. In other words, your fees maybe partially paid for if you work on campus. You can find out more from your university financial aid office. 11. STUDENT ORGANISATIONS INVOLVEMENT There are numerous clubs and associations on campus that provide vast exposure, student leadership opportunities and even job opportunities. A good example is Model United Nations (MUN) and AIESEC. MUN run annual conferences that offer experiential learning programmes and better understanding of the inner workings of the UN. It is also an opportunity to hone skills in diplomacy, negotiation, critical thinking, compromise, public speaking, writing, and research. AIESEC is one of the oldest most diverse student organisations in the world. It exposes you to the business world and the world as a whole through various programmes at your local university chapter, as well as the opportunity to work abroad through their student exchange programmes.  