President Kenyatta has ordered "speedy investigations" into the murder of IEBC ICT Manager Chris Msando and Carol Ngumbu. The president on Tuesday said his government was “deeply shocked and saddened” by the two killings. SPECULATION “Chris was a man who gave himself to the service of his country, and its institutions,” he said in a statement. "It is appropriate, then, to let those institutions handle the investigation, the better to bring the doers of this foul deed to justice." He urged Kenyans to stop speculating on the reason behind the two deaths and let investigators unravel them. “Careless speculation in this time of grief only makes the work of investigators harder, and it only adds to the pain of those who loved him,” he said. MEMORY “Let us respect his (Chris’) life, his achievements, and his memory by allowing these investigations to proceed calmly. The Republic must secure the lives, the property, and the safety of its people — and it will.” The country’s chief crime buster, Ndegwa Muhoro, on Monday said they were seized of the matter, and that they would do their best to bring the killers to book. The US and UK have also offered to help Mr Muhoro's Directorate of Criminal Investigations unravel the mystery murders. Mr Msando and Ms Mbungu went missing in the small hours of Saturday and their bodies were found at City Mortuary on Monday. UNITY As the investigations continue, President Kenyatta called for unity. “This is not the time to allow a tragedy such as this to divide us, to turn brother against brother,” he said. “In the face of death, we stand strong together: so that we can mourn a patriot; so that we can comfort his family and those he loved; and so that the ideal for which he lived — the free and fair choice of our leaders — is realized.” SECURITY President Kenyatta also directed that all IEBC commissioners be provided with adequate security around the clock a week to the General Election. “All presidential candidates and their running mates also need to have security to avert any excuses of postponing the elections," Mr Kenyatta said during a Jubilee campaign rally at 64 stadium in Eldoret, Uasin Gishu County. The National Super Alliance has also condemned the killing of Mr Msando and demanded a speedy investigation. The Raila Odinga-led coalition had accused the Jubilee administration of remaining silent after the killing of the IEBC official.   Family identifies her as Carol Ngumbu, a KMTC graduand.