Now, perhaps we do need a public holiday to allow people to travel to and fro. Secondly, in a country with high levels of unemployment, you really can’t ask people to return to work. What work? As for news stories, we can expect little else that is not election related. In Africa, and in particular, our tribally charged and divided nation, the stakes are high. The populace is talking about “putting our man’ in State House.” And because we feel we “own” a particular candidate, we put him above reproach and take it personally when he is opposed. What can we expect when he wins or loses? There will be a carnival mood for the supporters of the winning candidate and depression and even anger from the losing side. If we are to mature in democracy, our candidates must learn to win humbly and lose graciously. As supporters, we need to learn to emotionally remove ourselves from the outcomes of an election. To be dispassionate about the results but not disinterested unless of course we will be sharing our preferred candidates million plus shilling salary and perks. If you don’t believe me, try walking through the gates of State House and asking for a cup of tea because “your” candidate resides there. We need to be dispassionate about the results because there are big challenges ahead and whoever occupies State House has his work cut out. They are not the Messiah we seek, and will not magically change everything. They will win some and lose some. That’s why we must guard against blind sycophancy where “our” person is always right. We need to be dispassionate about the results because strong feelings of anger and desperation have led us down a slippery path before. Lives were lost when neighbours turned against neighbours making each other sworn enemies. Property was destroyed and businesses shut down. Lives were lost. We turned against colleagues and shed innocent blood across the country. We lost friendship because we stopped seeing a drinking buddy but a person of a tribe we opposed. We even got to that unenviable place where this country, a once safe haven that had hosted refugees from across the region, now had internally displaced persons. If your heart beats wildly just before the results are announced, take a deep breath, step back and calm yourself. Try to be dispassionate. And once the results are announced, if your candidate has won, celebrate humbly, extend an olive branch to those who “lost” and go right back to creating your personal destiny. If your candidate loses, accept the results graciously, congratulate those who won and go right back to your businesses, homes and families. No candidate is worth shedding innocent blood. And none of them is worth burning our country for. History will not be kind to us if we, as citizens, do not learn the lessons of 2007 and 2013. Future generations will judge us harshly for bringing this country to ruin because of ill perceived ownership status of the occupant of State House after August 8, 2017. Let’s change the narrative and vote for ourselves for once. We do that when we express our civic right and maintain peace with ourselves and others. We vote for ourselves when we return to doing whatever little we did before to contribute to the wellbeing of our families, communities and country.  carole@carolemandi.com  