The brutal murder of Christopher Msando has sent a shiver down the spine of the nation. It has left just about everyone frightened and wondering: They wouldn’t, would they? They could, but would they be so callous and stupid? INVESTIGATE Reflect on the nation’s history, experience of elections and assassinations and almost any explanation is possible and credible. Tension, mistrust and suspicion have risen to a new level in the past few days. The accusing finger is already pointing at the government and that requires them to quickly, professionally and thoroughly investigate Msando’s torture and elimination. DECISION The offers of assistance from both the FBI and Scotland Yard must be embraced and proceed immediately. The Opposition too will seize the opportunity to gain sympathy and votes even without any credible evidence or genuine sorrow for the late man’s family. We face a challenging week and the nation requires prayers, leadership and sobriety to get by. The intention here is not to create despondency but to call forth each one that we, too, may display wisdom and leadership in the forthcoming days. PUBLIC LANDMake your choice but don’t rush into a six-piece suit, which is unfashionable and suffocating. Realise too that there is no significant difference in the line-up of aspirants for election for every seat. Last week, the National Land Commission cancelled hundreds of titles of illegally acquired public land. The list included grabbers from both Nasa and Jubilee. INTEGRITY Look at the mega corruption of the last decades and realise that both parties have dirty hands and tainted money for their campaigns. At a more local level, greedy MCAs are found in every county and no party has a monopoly on theft and bad leadership. Use your vote to protest about bad performance and arrogant behaviour. Put another way, know that no candidate is worth dying or killing for. But Kenya is a project worth living, striving and devoting one’s energy and gifts to. YOUTH Kenya has come a long way in spite of politicians rather than because of them. It has tremendous potential in its vibrant youth who deserve better and require an environment in which their energy and giftedness may grow. Don’t be intimidated by any politician, administrator or security official. Go out and vote early and peacefully. ACCOUNTABILITY Above all, know that your democratic duty goes beyond the polling station. Whatever elected candidates are commissioned to represent you and your community, know that your duty to monitor, supervise and demand accountability from them has just begun. Be an active, demanding and responsible citizen whose voice must be heard since you are a taxpayer and the employer of everyone from MCA to the State House Occupant. LOVE That is real democracy and the best way to overturn our nasty, ethnic, ignorant brand of politics that is retarding the nation’s growth. Finally, let me conclude with words of wisdom from Desmond Tutu who said: “God’s dream is that you and I and all of us realise that we are family, that we are made for togetherness, goodness and compassion.” Keep safe, praying, hoping and smiling until we meet the other side of the vote. Fr Dolan is a priest based in Mombasa. gdolan54@gmail.com @GabrielDolan1  