A key witness in National Super Alliance (Nasa) election petition has claimed that his life is in danger. Mr Moses Wamuru, the Embu County ODM chairman who also served as the Nasa county coordinator in August 8 General Elections, on Tuesday said unknown people were trailing him. SUMMONS Speaking to the media in Embu town, the visibly shaken official said fellow party agents were also being summoned to the local Independent Elections and Boundaries Commission offices in what he claimed was “a move to amend Forms 34A”, a claim IEBC denies. Mr Wamuru is one of the key witnesses in the Nasa petition against President Uhuru Kenyatta’s win and has recorded a statement and sworn an affidavit on alleged election irregularities. He said he was being intimidated due to his stand on the just concluded poll, where he claimed he witnessed several irregularities at various polling stations in the county. “I do not feel secure. In the last three days I have noticed people trailing me. I have been receiving information from very close friends in places that I frequent. I have visited several entertainment joints and people have told me I am not safe there,” said Mr Wamuru. IRREGULARITIES “However, I am not cowed… any amount of intimidation cannot change what has been written. Those who feel aggrieved by my revealing of the truth, must wait to prove their innocence in a court of law.” He said Nasa agents were being harassed and frustrated on voting day and thus did not witness most of the voting and vote tallying process. “We didn't witness voting in various stations since many of the agents were chased away,” he claimed. Asked whether they signed results forms, he said: “You never expected us to sign since our agents were not there. Many of our agents are calling me and saying they have been called by various returning officers to go and help them sign forms 34A. Any form being signed now is suspicious because the work of agents ended on the Election Day.” Mr Wamuru cited Ngurueri polling station in Kianjokoma where he claims the presidential ballot papers got finished before others but voting went on. IEBC DENIES In his affidavit, Mr Wamuru has also named Karurumo polling centre where he claims people were handed multiple presidential ballot papers. Poll irregularities, he claims, were also witnessed at Kiangungi polling station. Embu County IEBC coordinator Dan Lenarum denied that his office had summoned Nasa agents. He said they were only in contact with presiding officers who would be part of IEBC's defence team. “We have not talked to any party agents. The people we have called are presiding officers and they are part of our defence,” he told the Nation on phone. And when sked whether he had recorded a statement with police on the threats, Mr Wamuru said he has no confidence in them, claiming they were among those who blocked Nasa agents from polling stations.   He urged Kenyans to continue fighting for justice without fear.