Thirdway Alliance Presidential candidate Ekuru Aukot has conceded defeat and urged other presidential candidates who lost in the race to move on. In a passionate plea to National Super Alliance Presidential candidate Raila Odinga, Dr Aukot on Thursday said Kenya needed to move on. RAILA He said Mr Odinga had done a lot for the country, especially in the fight for democracy, but it was time to move on. Based on sampling of the forms 34A that are currently in the system, Dr Aukot said, they had not seen material issues “that would significantly change the outcome of the presidential results”. Dr Aukot was at the moment a distant fifth in the race for State House. “Dear Kenyans, the election is over. It is time to go back and do what we do best. Build Kenya,” he said. VOTERS “We also congratulate each voter for keeping their peace and tolerance despite sharp political differences and political opinions.” The former Committee of Experts CEO said all candidates who participated in the election at all levels have the responsibility of bringing Kenyans back together. “Our party has made peace with the systems and we will respect the final outcome of this election,” he said. “We promise to share a more comprehensive report in the weeks to come in order to assist IEBC in the future.” GOLIATH Quoting the second stanza of the National Anthem in Kiswahili, Dr Aukot urged all to arise and serve the nation as well as be ready to defend Kenya. He said he will be ready for 2022, if he makes it then. Dr Aukot said the minority had had their say and the majority had had their way. He also thanked all those who supported his presidential bid. “Clearly the sting of David did not this time round, catch the Goliath,” he said. KERRY He agreed with former US Secretary of State John Kerry, who is also the lead of Carter Centre observation mission, that the no election can be 100 percent perfect. He agreed with Mr Kerry that IEBC put good measures to ensure that the election process was smooth. The only blot in the entire process, he said, was the unavailability of forms 34A in the transmission of the presidential election results.   IEBC chairman calls on political leaders to avoid sentiments that can stoke tension.