As the group of five troop to Koibatek Forest in Nakuru just before dawn, they may be mistaken as charcoal burners invading the resource under the cover of darkness. Armed with hoes and machetes and wearing gumboots, jackets, gloves and marvins to protect themselves from the biting cold, the five disappear into the forest. They are part of Koibatek Community Forest Association Farmers (KCFAF), which is farming in the forest in an exciting programme named Pelis overseen by the Kenya Forest Service (KFS).The small-scale farmers, who are landless and live around Jogoo, Kibunja, Sachangwan and Salgaa trading centres along Nakuru-Eldoret Road, are now harvesting big by farming in the forest and protecting it.John Rotich, the chairman, says they farm potatoes, maize, beans and peas in the forest under a system known as Plantation Establishment for Livelihood System (Pelis).In the system, KFS organises people living near forests into associations through which they cultivate crops during the early stages of forest plantation establishment.Pelis draws its membership from communities living near forests managed by KFS. Members are recruited in groups of 50s and must be registered as a community based organisation. Farmers are leased land and intercrop short-term crops such as potatoes, peas, beans and maize with tree seedlings. The lease agreement is pegged on how they protect the tree seedlings to maturity. In Koibatek, 3,000 acres are under use. I farm potatoes on quarter acre and harvest up to 10 bags and when the price is good, I make some Sh55,000 in three months, says Samuel Rono, a farmer from Kamara division.REGENARATING DWINDLING FOREST COVERRono also plants peas on quarter acre getting between 1,000 and 1,500kg in three months, which he sells at between Sh40 and Sh50 per each. As they farm in the forest, the farmers are expected to tend to the young seedlings.Rotich says apart from offering income to members, they get tips on how to take care of the forest. Many of our members were not aware of forest conservation and management but since they started the farming, they have now extended the skills to their homes, says Rotich.Benard Orinda, KFS Baringo County Eco-system conservator, says farmers have improved the growth rate of tree seedlings as fertilisers they use helps the seedlings to grow faster and form canopy after three years. The beauty of this partnership is that KFS has been able to plant additional 1,000 hectares of land in Koibatek Forest with new tree seedlings whose survival rate is almost 100 per cent since farmers take care of them as they cultivate their land, says Senior Assistant Director and Head of Mau Conservancy Cosmas Ikiugu.Ikiugu says Pelis is a faster way of regenerating the dwindling forest cover, fighting food insecurity and eradicating poverty.According to KFS, the programme is taking place in all high potential forests across the country in Nyanza, Coast, Rift Valley, Central Kenya in Aberdare Forest, Eastern in Isiolo, Machakos, Samburu, Marsabit and Kakamega. The farmers will grow crops on this part of the forest for fours years and then shift to the next land where they plant tree seedlings and once they are harvested, the cycle continues, he says. email print email print The fabrics are elegant and cool compared to cotton fabrics, according to experts.