In merging poetry with music, Kipekee, a new live performance show, aims to set itself apart as a premier stage for rich and unique entertainment experiences.Serro, Socrates and Sage, calling themselves soulful divas will light up the stage on September 8 at Michael Joseph Centre. Fans will be treated to an intimate and soulful expression through verse and melody. Kipekee will be a regular music and poetry concert celebrating outstanding artistes with a body of authentic and original work.Setting the pace will be Hulda Serro. Her voice has been likened to chocolate-coated raindrops soothing, alluring and sweet. She has music spanning several genres, but is best of all known for her recent single Rongai in which she decries the pain of having a cheating partner. I m glad to be back after a short hiatus, I was finalising my studies, Serro told ActScene.A multi-instrumentalist, Serro is becoming a much sought-after artiste that has graced many stages in the last few years. Serro s sultry magic will be matched well by Tess Socrates impassioned poetry. Socrates was a runner-up at the 2016 Slam Africa poetry festival.She has fierce stage presence as she covers a wide variety of topics, from family to love but focuses mostly on women empowerment. Socrates can trace her poetry to her mother s poems which she would find strewn in various places in the house. At 11, she began to work on verses of her own to express herself. You can see some very personal experiences so eloquently described in her poetry, which she hopes will alter perspectives of the woman s place in society and in every sphere of life. She says; The gig has an amazing line up. All amazing women! Sage Chemutai s deep and alluring voice, which you might know from her first single So Alive featuring Octopizzo, will be the third act to watch at Kipekee. She began singing in church when she was five. I m excited to share some of my new music with the fans, Sage said.Her sound is aptly described as being a soulful fusion of everything musical , and doesn t shy away from showing real emotions through her songs. Show starts from 6 pm. to 9 pm. email print email print