Senator Godliver Omondi, who has been representing people with disabilities in the House, is now an MCA in Kakamega. Ms Omondi beat six opponents to clinch the Kholera Ward seat in August 8 General Election. ANC TICKET The lawmaker, who ran on Amani National Congress ticket, says she is very comfortable serving all her people— not just those with disabilities—from home. She surprised many when she announced last year that she intended to “downgrade" from senator to a member of the county assembly. She garnered 3,657 votes while her closest competitor, Mr Karim Wesonga Tingili of ODM, got 2,657. The incumbent, Abel Nambwaya, came third with 1,423 votes. CAMPAIGN Despite her disability, the 44-year-old mother of three put up a spirited campaign and promised to use her four-year experience in the Senate to represent and serve residents of Kholera Ward. She said she had decided to leave what is perceived to be a glamorous parliamentary seat to fight for a "less prestigious" one to be able to serve her people more effectively. Another surprise victory was that of the youthful independent candidate Leylah Muhandale Ichami who defeated 15 rivals to win the Lumakanda Ward seat. The 23-year-old youth graduated from the University of Nairobi last year and decided to plunge into elective politics with the encouragement from her father. 23 YEARS “Unlike my competitors, I did not have the money and resources to launch a high profile campaign but that did not discourage me,” Ms Ichami told the Nation on phone. “I decided to conduct door-to-door campaigns and that did the trick”. In the elections, ODM retained majority of the 60 seats at the assembly after scooping 32 as Amani National Congress took 19. The rest were taken by other parties. Voters in the region send packing 45 MCAs, with the biggest causalities being Majority Leader Robert Kundu Makhanu and Minority Leader Titus Marachi Kwomah.   Nominated lawmaker leaving perceived glamorous parliamentary seat to seek "less prestigious" one.