Sometimes you are tired, have stuff to do, or just aren t in the mood. But saying no is hard. And being turned down hurts. So every couple needs to learn how to say no to one another. So you both end up feeling closer, rather than seething with resentment or embarrassment.Start by being glad you were asked. Your partner s invitation might not be welcome at that precise moment, but it might be on another occasion. So don t ignore hints. Say something simple, like Thank you for asking .And don t ever be sarcastic, even if your partner s timing s totally awful. Like when you ve just changed the baby s diaper, or are desperately tired from a long commute: You really want sex NOW ? just adds humiliation to rejection.Instead, take every invitation seriously. Because even the happiest couples rarely want sex at exactly the same time. And you actually might get turned on once you start. So maybe ask your partner for a few moments: Give me five minutes, and then I ll see if I m up for it. Or tell your partner that you re uncertain: I m not sure how I feel. Let s start kissing and see what happens. And if that doesn t work, gently wind things down.Many couples get into monotonous lovemaking habits. So being invited into the same old boring routine probably doesn t sound particularly exciting. So why not suggest something different?Still not up for it? Say why. Because once your partner understands that you re stressed or worried about something, they re less likely to feel hurt. They ll see that you re simply turning down sex, rather than rejecting them as a person. Giving reasons also helps you to spot any pattern to your refusals. Share them with your partner. Say something like, I ve noticed that watching movies make me so tired I just want to sleep. So if romance crosses your mind, could we start things off earlier? One of you will almost certainly have a higher sex drive than the other. And so they end up doing most of the work. So acknowledge that. Say something like, I realise you re usually the one who starts things off. Just know I like you doing that. Just that simple sentence can go a long way.If you tend not to initiate very often, try upping your game! That starts long before anyone get s naked. Try a little subtle teasing over breakfast to plant the idea. Or a few sexy texts during the day.Relax together as the evening starts. Make a little small talk over a drink and you re half way there.Make it a habit to always go to bed together at the same time each evening. You ll make love much more often. So no more surfing on your own screens!Asking or declining sex stirs up our deepest fears and vulnerabilities. And no one ever gets it exactly right. But keep trying, because just making the effort will completely change your relationship. [email&#160;protected] email print email print