Ms Phyllis Wambura Maranga, an independent candidate seeking the Mathira Constituency seat in Nyeri County, is asking her rivals to engage in a competition that is free from insults and violence but issue oriented. Ms Maranga spoke of politicians who are using insults and abusive language against their competitors, as they seek votes ahead of next Tuesday’s general election. She told her opponents that she will be on the ballot on August 8 and her interest is to serve Mathira constituents and initiate development should she be elected the next MP. The 70-year old businesswoman is in a tight race with three male competitors. AGE ISSUE She said some of the rivals, whom she did not name, are asking her to quit the race for them citing her age. This, she says, is tantamount to disrespecting the elderly and discriminating against them because of political competition. “Some people are [using me to give] examples of old people. They should respect the aged and I have asked all the aged not to vote for such candidates,” said Ms Maranga while addressing her supporters in Magutu Village. Those in the race with her are Rigathi Gachagua, 53, of Jubilee Party, the incumbent MP Peter Weru, 40, and George Warutere Thinwa, 27, of Narc Kenya. CAUSED STIR The political newcomer, who has caused a stir in the constituency giving her rivals a rough time and whose slogan is Okoa Mathira (save Mathira), told her rivals to ignore her candidature at their own peril, saying she will give them a run for their money. “Mathira wants transformative leadership with a transformative agenda. I am the transformative leader with development ideas and I have endeared myself to the voters,” said Ms Maranga. She says there are unexploited public resources in the area which would change locals’ livelihoods and that will be one of her areas of focus. Ms Maranga singles out health, education and water accessibility as her priority projects to undertake if elected. CONSULTATIONS The independent candidate has also pledged to involve residents in her development plans, adding that she would provide “consultation leadership”. Speaking at Kaimucheru after commissioning a 220-metre deep borehole, Ms Maranga lamented that most villages in the constituency have no access to clean and reliable water. She said the borehole will rely on solar energy to supply the commodity to about 3,000 households. UNTAPPED RESOURCES “There is numerous untapped resources in Mathira and residents must demand for services since the government provides [funds]. Water [provision] is among my areas of focus [in order] to ensure residents practice farming for commercial purposes,” said Ms Maranga. She added that if elected, she will ensure each of the six wards has three boreholes each to mitigate the water problem. “Water can solve several socio-economic problems because it can [be used for] both large and small-scale farming. Families will eventually become economically empowered,” she explained. She further praised her ongoing project to rehabilitate neglected dams in the area for water storage purposes. Ms Maranga also asked the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) to ensure the polls will be free and fair. PRAISED SRC She also lauded the Salaries and Remuneration Commission (SRC) for reducing the pay for State officers and scrapping allowances to reduce the wage bill. “I have no issue with reduced salaries and I am instead applauding the commission. I want to serve the people not because of the salary but because I want to transform their lives,” she said. She urged voters in the region to note the candidates who are running for seats because of their personal interests such as huge salaries and those who want to serve the people irrespective of the income. CONFIDENT OF WIN Ms Maranga exuded confidence that she will defeat her competitors during the elections, insisting that during the Jubilee Party nominations, she was rigged out. She also insisted that she is supporting and campaigning for President Kenyatta’s re-election though she is an independent candidate. “I am seeking my own votes and those of the President though I am not in his party. I am asking my supporters to turn out on August 8 and re-elect him,” said Ms Maranga.  