It’s 1pm and Titus Wanjohi is getting concerned. For the last 10 minutes his phone calls have gone unanswered. He keeps trying on each of his six mobile phones with singular determination. Then, after  a while he says: “They rarely take calls at lunchtime.” “They”, refers to four Gikuyu radio stations that Wanjohi, known to fans as Wanjohi wa Kigogo-ini, calls every day to offer his views on a variety of topics. As a result, thousands of listeners recognise his piping voice. During a discussion on one station earlier today, the topic was about woman who had chosen to stay in a physically abusive marriage. “I don’t get it,” an indignant Wanjohi remarks. “The man even carries a knife to bed. Isn’t this woman sharp enough to know that he is plotting her death? Why won’t she run?” We are in Wanjohi’s small sitting room in his Kigogo-ini Village, about nine  kilometres from Nyeri Town. The TV screen on the wall blinks as Wanjohi looks for  material that he can use later on. He mumbles answers to my questions as he continues trying to squeeze in a call. Watching Wanjohi’s face creased in concentration tells of a man completely in the grip of his vocation. Since 2010, not a day has passed without him calling at least two radio stations. When he first started calling, it was for the excitement of hearing his own voice on air. But the thrill soon turned to compulsion: Wanjohi would wait by the radio for his calls to go through. TOPIC MATTERS LITTLE The topic matters little; even during a female-only call-in shows, you will hear Wanjohi’s voice. Sometimes he has no idea of the topic being discussed and asks a bemused, and at times curt, host: “What are we talking about today?” It is not unusual for him to call several times during the same programme, to the annoyance of other listeners. “Tell Wanjohi to stop calling! We also want to have our views heard,” shouted one bristling Alice Wanjohi one recent Sunday morning. Unfazed, Wanjoi says, “I have improved. I used to go off topic, say things that I shouldn’t have said.” Most radio stations have a phone-screening system to limit the number of calls an individual can make during a programme, so when Wanjohi realised he couldn’t call in as much as he wanted, he started calling programmes airing at different times on the different radio stations. The mental picture I had of Wanjohi was that a country bumpkin who considers the mobile phone the greatest invention of modern times. However, when I knocked on the door, the person who answered was  a youthful man with curly hair and a ready smile. I arrived unannounced after seeking directions from strangers — which was not difficult — having been told he is wary of strangers. After asking about my mission, we settle into conversation and I soon realise that he isn’t the easiest of subjects. He cannot focus for long on anything, apart from his phones. “Tell me what you want to know,” he tells me. Titus Wanjohi, 27, is the last born of five children. He works as a farmhand in the neighbourhood. In fact, he is on lunch break. He still can’t get through to any station, yet he has to rush back to work soon. 200 A DAY ON AIRTIME Wanjohi spends at least Sh200 on airtime daily, but it can go up, depending on the topic of discussion. A typical night for him ends at around midnight. He finds the graveyard shift particularly convenient since there are fewer callers and the racy, taboo topics make for great conversation. He rises at cockcrow and flips through the TV stations to glean newspaper reviews and news. While Wanjohi considers this a passion — a story is told of how, when called to the microphone by a senior politician during a public rally asked what he would like as a gift, Wanjohi famously said he wanted Sh100 worth of airtime — his calling habit is somewhat unsettling. And Wanjohi is a meticulous man. Under the table are six pairs of shoes, two of which are identical and as we talk, he picks up a pair of shiny brown shoes and buffs them — though the shoes clearly don’t need cleaning — until they gleam. There is a picture on the wall of him posing with a fetching young woman, but he tells me he is single. And not for lack of suitable candidates. He says it is partly due to his notoriety. “I once spoke at a big church rally and was later approached by some women but later I thought, do they love me, or have they fallen for Wanjohi the voice?” he offers. PUBLIC OFFICE ITCH Meanwhile, Wanjohi plans to run for public office sometime in the future. People have approached him, telling him his voice can be their voice. He has been thinking about it. “You know, a prophet is not without honour save for in his own country,”  he says, hinting that not everyone is happy that thousands get to hear him on radio. “But we will see.” It is possible to weigh a man’s influence — no matter how parochial or fleeting — by how much a particular place gains its identity from that person. Kigogo-ini Shopping Centre is a sleepy market overlooking beautiful, rolling tea plantations dotted with green, red and silver roofs. A small signpost announces its name. It is the kind of place one drives past without a second look but in the last six years or so, it has become synonymous with its famous resident. A few years ago, a friend of mine passed by the centre’s bus terminus in Nyeri town. A man touting for passengers was shouting: “Anyone travelling to Wanjohi? This is the vehicle!”   A visit to this learning centre that was opened in 1971 gives you a good feel of the history of the Kenya-Uganda railway, which was aptly nicknamed the Lunatic Express