The national football women s under-20 team is scheduled to leave the country Sunday evening for the Kingdom of Jordan ahead of two friendly matches against their Jordanian counterparts. The team of 20 players will leave for Jordan in two batches, with the first group leaving at 9pm Sunday night and the next contingent leaving Monday evening. The second batch will be comprised of players who are currently in Uganda for the Brookside East Africa Secondary School Games, seven of who feature for reigning champions Wiyeta Secondary School. The two matches will be played on August 29 and 31 in Jordan, and the junior Harambee Starlets will use the period to prepare for next month s 2018 Fifa Under-20 Women s World Cup qualifier against Ethiopia. The squad has been camping at the Kenyatta Stadium in Machakos for the last two weeks. The team s coaches and players have reportedly been barred from speaking to the media by Football Kenya Federation.The youngsters recorded a terrific start in the preliminary round of the 2018 Fifa Under-20 Women s World Cup qualifiers where they beat Botswana 7-1 away at the Lobatse Sports Complex. The Starlets junior team was formed early this year from a pool of young girls who had excelled in the national secondary school games, and were joined by Soccer Queens striker Corazone Aquino and Thika Queens defender Wincate Kaari who have previously featured for the senior national team. Provisional SquadGoalkeepersLillian Awuor (Nyakach Girls), Judith Osimbo (Nyakach G.), Dina Tembesi (Wiyeta Girls), Ivy Makokha (Ibinzo Girls)DefendersWincate Kaari (Thika Queens), Leah Cherotich (Wiyeta Girls), Robai Shari (Wiyeta Girls), 4. Maureen Khakasa (Wiyeta Girls), Veronicah Awino (Damascus Pry.), Alice Mideri (Ibinzo Girls), Lucy Akoth (St. Paul s Abwao), Vivian Makokha (Ibinzo Girls), Zipporah Adhiambo (TarTar Girls), Foscah Nashivanda (Nginda Girls), Millicent Ajema (Bishop Okullu)MidfieldersCorazone Aquino (Soccer Queens), Sheryl Angachi (Olympic High), Cynthia Shilwatso (Ibinzo Girls), Cynthia Akinyi (Nginda Girls), Cynthia Alwala (Maina Wanjigi), Teresia Gakii (Kwale Girls), Dorah Achieng (Olympic High), Tina Turner Wairimu (St. Paul s Abwao), Joan Akoth (SEP Kisumu)\AttackersMercy Airo (Nyakach Girls), Lilian Mmboga (Ibinzo Girls), Rachael Muema (Thika Queens), Martha Amunyolete (Wiyeta Girls), Dianah Wacera (Mathare United), Christine Kitaru (Nginda Girls), Stella Anyango (Soccer Queens), Faith Atieno (Olympic High), Gentrix Shikangwa (Wiyeta Girls) email print email print