Improving health care is an important goal of many nations and institutions. Kenya’s development blueprint, Vision 2030, recognises the need for the provision of quality health care. The Constitution affirms “the highest attainable standard of health” as a fundamental right of every citizen. Whereas considerable progress has been made since the start of the millennium development goals (MDGs), less than a third of all the countries met them. According to the World Health Organisation, the risk of a child dying before the age of five in Africa is still eight times that of Europe (95 compared to 12 per 1,000 live births). BIRTH RATE The World Health Organisation (WHO) says global life expectancy at birth is 71 years, compared to that of Kenya at between 58 and 62 years. Kenya has among the highest maternal mortality rates in the world, ranging between 250 and 680 (average 488 in 2013) per 100,000 deliveries. It is among the 10 countries with the highest maternal mortality rates in the world. Per capita expenditure in health for Kenya is $169 (2014) compared to the Netherlands (one of the countries with the best healthcare) at $5,202. The government has increased the provision of health care facilities, equipment and personnel. This has resulted in a tangible reduction of maternal deaths (488 to 362 per 100,000 deliveries), a reduction of the infant mortality (74 to 52 per 1,000 infants) and increased childhood immunisation (up from 60 per cent to 80 per cent coverage).  The private health sector complements government efforts to provide quality health care. Private hospitals have increased geographical and financial access to patients. Distance is a determinant of a patient’s choice of hospital. Private hospitals have seen a growth in physical facilities, with increased outpatient services through a proliferation of clinics. Aga Khan University Hospital has 42 private outpatient clinics across the country. FACILITIES This growth has also seen an increase in inpatient bed capacity at Nairobi Hospital, Avenue Hospital and MP Shah Hospital and a planned increase at Aga Khan University Hospital, Nairobi, and Aga Khan Hospital Mombasa and Kisumu, to name but a few. The increased bed capacity is accompanied by a rise in specialised facilities such as intensive care units, neonatal units that can take care of extreme premature babies, diagnostic services such as MRIs and soon to be acquired PET scans. The improvement in facilities is driven by rising demand as well as an increase in highly skilled personnel. Aga Khan University Hospital, Nairobi, now routinely undertakes minimally invasive complex brain surgery without opening up and exposing the entire brain, and heart valve replacement without having to open up the heart. MODERN MEDICINE Minimally evasive gynaecological and general surgery have become so common that they are now incorporated as part of the curricula at Aga Khan University’s Medical College in Nairobi. With the increasing complexity of medicine, it is imperative to have clear controls to ensure ethical service in an efficient and high-quality manner. For clinical practices, this means benchmarking services to those of international best practices. This is done through subscribing to international accreditation services such as the Joint Commission International. It is, therefore, unfair for the government to allow free standing profit centres such as imaging (x-ray) centres and laboratories that undercut the diagnostic services of the large hospitals and could potentially run them out of business.  Dr Twahir, associate dean, Clinical Affairs and Chief of Staff at Aga Khan University Hospital, Nairobi  