IN GULU, UGANDA Regional hockey champions Sinyolo Girls will retain their title if they avoid defeat against home side Old Kampala on Day Six of the Brookside East Africa Secondary School Games here on Thursday. The four-time champions on Wednesday edged compatriots St Joseph s Kitale 1-0 at the St Joseph s Layibi College in their fourth match of the competition.The win saw them extend their lead at the top of the table to 10 points, three more than second placed St Joseph s, who have also played four matches.The competition is being played in a round-robin format. Lethal striker Maurine Owiti scored the game s winning goal in the 34th minute to give her side the all-important three points. Sinyolo coach Alloise Owino is leaving nothing to chance as the team seeks a fifth straight East African crown. We are approaching the match as a final and we know what is at stake and the team is ready to complete the task, Owino said. Our strategy is to have a good start so that we cannot be able to put them on the back foot by getting early goals, the tactician added.KENYAN TRIO WANT TITLEThe boys competition is still open as all the three Kenyan teams, five-time champions St Anthony s Kitale, Kisumu Day and Upper Hill have a shot of winning the title.St Anthony s play Kisumu Day Thursday afternoon.In volleyball, last year s girls silver medallists Soweto Academy of Kenya came from one set down to beat Namugongo of Uganda 3-1 (21-25, 25-8, 25-11, 25-9) and secure their first victory of the tourney.Kenya s Cheptil tasted their first defeat of the championship after losing to Rwanda s St Aloys. The Kenyan girls went down 3-1 (25-23, 12-25, 27-25, 25-17) against the enterprising Rwandese in Pool B .LOST TO LUYANZIIn the boys contest, national champions Sengera SDA lost in straight sets of 25-22, 26-24 and 25-18 to homeboys Luyanzi in Pool A . Meanwhile, the 10,000 metres boys race will officially open the athletics championships programme on Thursday at Peace Grounds as Kenya hopes scoop more medals in the discipline they have enjoyed untamed dominance over the years. Other races on Thursday include the girls 5,000m along with the boys 1,500m, 800m and 100m heats among other events.The athletics action will conclude on Friday with finals in various races before curtains come down on the 16th edition of school games officially on Saturday. email print email print Kakamega have one match left, while Laiser Hill have the advantage of two matches still to play.