The head of the Commonwealth Observer Mission in Kenya John Mahama has challenged the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) to ensure the August 8 elections are free, fair and credible as the much heated political campaigns of all time come to a close Saturday in line with the elections law.Mr. Mahama, the former president of Ghana, said that it will be a watershed election that will establish whether Kenya is a mature democracy in Africa and urged the jubilee administration to refrain from any form of interference including the recent claims of military deployments to opposition areas during the electioneering period.PEACE The use of military in every country is guided by rules and regulations and I hope the government will abide by this, Mr. Mahama spoke on Thursday in Nairobi adding; the police and the auxiliary units that deal with peace should be upfront. Last month, Nasa leaders led by presidential candidate Raila Odinga, produced documents they claimed to have originated from the military, clandestinely detailing how the jubilee administration was planning to interfere with the elections through questionable deployment of military personnel to intimidate and harass voters in Nasa areas.The Cabinet Secretary in charge of Defence Raychalle Omamo and the military spokesman Col. Joseph Owuoth have since issued conflicting statements over the documents.Whereas the military spokesman admitted that the documents were authentic, only that they had been quoted out of context by Nasa leaders, Ms. Omamo dismissed them as fake and meant to cause fear and despondency among the people. DEMOCRATIC PROCESSIn calling for a credible process, Mr. Mahama said that his team of observers will be guided by impartiality, independence and transparency in discharging its role. We are aware of the significance of these elections to the people of Kenya, the region and the global community. Our presence affirms the support of the Commonwealth to Kenya and its democratic processes. He also noted that that the responsibility of conducting a credible election process lies with Kenyans and condemned the killing of the IEBC s acting manager for ICT Chris Msando. We join with those calling for a full rigorous and thorough investigation to find out who is responsible and why this murder took place, Mr. Mahama, who is leading a 15 member team, which will be deployed across the country, said.DISPUTESDespite political attacks on the judiciary by both sides of the political divide in an attempt to manipulate its rulings regarding electoral disputes, the former Ghanaian head of state said that Kenya has a robust justice system that will withstand such attacks.The team has been in Kenya since July 31, 2017, and is expected to conclude its mission on August 14, 2017 after the declaration of presidential results. The law requires the IEBC chairman to declare the presidential results within seven days.The team will issue a preliminary statement on August 10, 2017 before preparing and submitting its report to the Commonwealth Secretary General Rt. Patricia Scotland. email print email print