Businesses around the world are fast-tracking the adoption of e-commerce. It is an efficient and convenient way of doing business. Traditional trading is losing colour and currency. Malls are closing down and businesses are reducing staff whereas others are hiring in haste. INTERNETThe message is on the online wall. In the swamps of the internet, is where business is growing. Let’s look at global trading trend-setters. Amazon announced that they are hiring 100,000 full-time employees in the US by the end of 2018. The jobs will span engineering, software development, logistics and customer service. POSTAL SERVICESThe company is expanding its role in the logistics industry with drone technology that could see the unmanned aerial vehicles deliver products to customers’ homes. Currently, products are delivered using ground and air postal services. Walmart has also acquired several tech companies to help it stir-up its online trading strategy. Like Amazon, Walmart is also hunting for employees to match the tech-buoyed business. CUSTOMERSWalmart has also made improvements to its shopping and payment apps, pushing customers to come into stores by offering them incentives. The company is using e-commerce to direct more shoppers to stores to generate sales and protect margins. For example, Walmart recently started offering discounts for orders placed online but picked up in store, which saved shipping costs. SALESThese companies are looking for a variety of skill – from engineers and software developers to those seeking entry-level positions and on-the-job training. These are only two examples among the many companies that are going all in to build their e-commerce platforms. This is as a result of declining in-store sales over the last quarters. One can easily dismiss these examples as foreign and non-reflective of the African market. TECHNOLOGY True, we neither have the technological infrastructure nor the wherewithal of the First World. Nevertheless there is every indication that the technology space is spreading fast. Technology now offers a platform for a banana farmer in Meru to do business with grocery stores in another part of the country or abroad. A fisherman in Malindi can now trade with a restaurant in Massachusetts. JACK MABillionaire businessmen and women are trooping to Africa for opportunities. Just recently, Asia’s richest man, Ma Yun, known professionally as Jack Ma – Alibaba’s CEO – made stops in two African countries, preaching the gospel of entrepreneurship to thousands of aspiring entrepreneurs. With him were 38 businessmen, all ready to establish business relationships in Africa. And last year, Facebook maven, Mark Zuckerberg was in Africa for the same reasons. NEW MARKETSThese entrepreneurs are sniffing and sighting profitable opportunities in Kenya and in the continent. They are betting on the fast-growing middle-class, good weather all year-around, and young talented workers. Importantly, they are banking big on the growing technological infrastructure. Earlier this year, Microsoft announced its intention to open data centres in Africa. DEBIT CARDS The data centres will fortress cloud-based businesses. Currently, most data centres are situated in Europe and Asia, which tends to slow online operations. Kenya’s technology ecosystem is also developing in depth and breadth. Mobile money and the burgeoning number of Kenyans with debit and credit cards means readiness to do business with local and international companies, big or small, in rural or urban areas. RETAILRetail businesses in western countries are going through a tough transition; from traditional to technology-dependent. Locally, retail business, including supermarkets are feeling the disruptive heat of technology. We should take lessons from the West and adapt fast. If we don’t learn and adapt, we will be tossed by the wayside and someone else will eat our lunch. Writer is informatics specialist. samwambugu@gmail.com. @samwambugu2  