The stakes are high and leadership is a common word in uncommon situations lately. What will it take for the motley contenders in the August 8 elections to make successful bids for elective public office? It is also open season for giving and receiving ‘favours’ in a lopsided kind of way, with the givers likely to be the ones scouring Kenya for votes and the recipients spoilt for choice just this once. VOTERS The list is impressive. All these slots must be filled: President, Deputy President, Governor, Senator, Women’s Representative, Member of Parliament and Member of County Assembly. It is election campaign time and the scorecards are in the voters’ hands. Raila Odinga is going for the number one post of President of the Republic of Kenya. LEADERS Does he have what it takes? Global leadership guru and bestselling author of The Monk Who Sold His Ferari series, Robin Sharma, says: “You cannot lead others until you have first learned to lead yourself.” Kenya takes pride in her share of selfless individuals who have impacted positively on the lives of citizens long after their demise. Tom Mboya and Dr Julius Gikonyo Kiano were two such men. EDUCATION In the late 1950s to the early 1960s, Mboya and Kiano launched the academic airlifts whose impact is still being felt across the globe. By organising airlifts and scholarships for young men and women to study in the United States, the two politicians built a strong foundation of leadership for a young nation shaking off the shackles of colonialism. Barack Obama Sr. was one such student who flew to the US to study and ended up not only with a fine education from Harvard University, but also sired a son who became the first African American President of the US for two terms from 2008 to 2016, Barack Hussein Obama. PURPOSE The airlifts birthed Kenyan scientists, medical doctors and surgeons, environmentalists, engineers, administrators — valuable human resource that has shaped and steered the Kenya we know to date. By helping educate citizens, irrespective of their tribe or political affiliation, the duo did what international development institutions now do as a matter of course. Today’s leadership is not necessarily about the people ‘in charge’ but about something bigger in which everyone participates. RAILA What can we learn from Raila? Without doubt he is one of the most charismatic politicians alive in Kenya. He commands a fanatical following and his influence across generations, ethnicities and political affiliations is not in question. No wonder his followers refer to him fondly as Jakom, Tinga, Agwambo and Baba. How will he transform the lives of Kenyans? KIBRAThose who criticise his development record argue that he has squandered too many opportunities to transform his massive influence to ensure that his followers grow wealth and sustain livelihoods beyond the basic needs. A case in point is Kibera, a large support base in Lang'ata Constituency where Raila held sway as the MP for nearly two decades. Most of Kibra’s residents still live in extreme poverty in the vast and unplanned settlement. VISION 2030If Kibra is to be used as the microcosm of Raila’s leadership and developmental capacities, one would be tempted to ask what he hopes to achieve at the national level. How does he intend to galvanise the support and resources to turn around Kenya’s development agenda and expedite the achievement of Vision 2030? Some would argue that Raila needs to show his good side and move beyond the current grandstanding to tell the people what he envisions for this country. Let him tell us what he brings to the table. Mr Wambilianga is a political commentator. masikawambilianga@gmail.com  