IN LONDONKenya’s 400 metres wonder girl Maximilla Imali just got the match-up she had prayed for coming into these championships. The 21-year-old had hoped to reach the final of the one-lap race where she would have been sure of running alongside her favourite athlete, American multiple champion Allyson Felix. And guess what? Imali, the fast-rising sprints and middle distance runner, will face-off Felix right from the first heat of the race on Sunday, Imali starting on lane five and Felix on lane one. “I am little bit nervous but happy at the same time to face-off my favourite athlete. I thank God for remaining faithful,” Imali said Saturday night. “I hope to overcome the anxiety as I take on the best of the world.” Imali is already visualising running sub-50 seconds time with a quality field beckoning unlike during the National Championships and the trials where she didn’t have someone to push her to the magical mark. “Felix might go slowly since she only needs to qualify for the semis but I will track her to also reach the next stage,” said Imali, who Team Kenya sprints coach Vincent Mumo described as the best among the sprinters he took to London. “Running with the top cream like Felix should give me the challenge to improve my personal best.” Felix has 13 medals from the World Championships, nine which are gold medals. Her latest is the 2015 Beijing 400m victory. She also has nine medals from the Olympics, six which are gold. She won silver in the 400m at last year’s Rio Olympics. Imali is taking it easy said it’s the best feeling ever to represent Kenya at the senior level. "I want to reach the final and leave the rest to God,” said the athlete from Moiben, Uasin Gishu County. Imali, who represented Kenya for the first time in the 800 metres at the 2014 World Under-20 Championships in Eugene, USA, and made her first Diamond League appearance in the two-lap race in 2016 (Rome), declares that she is ready for London and beyond. She is planning to scale back to 800m after the Commonwealth Games in March next year. “She is the best placed sprinter to give Kenya a medal at the World Championships. She is so courageous and I think she will crack it. I want her to stay a little bit in 400m since she will go far with her speed and power,” said Mumo, adding that Imali will easily break the 50-second barrier if she stays calm.   Conseslus has vowed to go one better this time round.