IN GULU, UGANDA Kakamega High School boys’ football team on Monday became the first Kenyan side to advance to the quarter-finals of the Brookside East Africa Secondary School Games here. The “Green Commandoes” beat Tanzania’s Alliance Rock 1-0 in their second Pool ‘C’ match at Gulu High School to advance. Harambee Stars’ trialist Chris Alpha Onyango scored the lone goal in the 35th minute to hand the 12-time Kenyan champions their second win of the competition. On Sunday evening, Kakamega had opened their campaign with a hard fought 2-1 win over Ugandan champions Jinja Secondary School at the Peace Stadium. Forward Henry Juma scored the winning goal in the second half after Joel Madondo had cancelled out Juma’s opener. The Kenyans, who last featured in the competition in 2014 in Dar es Salaam, now lead the pool with six points ahead of their final match against Nakaseke International of Uganda on Tuesday. Kakamega coach Brendan Mwinamo warned that his side is yet to hit top gear as they chase a maiden title. “We should have won by a bigger margin after dominating the match for large spells. Reaching the last eight of the competition gives us confidence of going all the way and we are getting better with each match,” Mwinamo said. In Pool ‘B’, 11-time winners St Mary’s Kitende also enhanced their chances of going through after a 6-1 drubbing of Roi De Getega. Paddy Agama grabbed a hat-trick with Pius Wangi scoring twice and Brian Kalumba adding the other. It was Kitende’s second win of the competition after their 2-1 win over St Anthony’s Boys Kitale on Sunday. In Pool ‘C’, Jinja are on the brink of elimination after they drew 0-0 with Nakaseke International at St Joseph’s Layibi College. In girls’ football, former winners Wiyeta Girls were 3-1 winners over Uganda Martyrs in Pool ‘B’. Monica Etot hit a brace with Rhoda Nafula adding the other. In Pool ‘C’, Ibinzo Girls from Kenya beat E.S. Mutunda of Rwanda 1-0. In girls’ hockey, champions Sinyolo Girls and St Joseph’s Kitale recorded their first wins of the competition. Sinyolo, four-time winners, crashed home girls St Mary’s Namagunga 6-0 with Margret Omondi and Alice Owiti bagging a brace each, while her sister Maurine Owiti, and Stacy Akinyi scored a goal each. Agnetah Okumu was in imperious form for St Joseph’s Girls Kitale scoring five goals in their 7-0 drubbing of Old Kampala. Brenda Barasa netted a double to move the debutantes to the top of the table tied on four points with Sinyolo who have an inferior goal difference. In the boys’ contest, five-time East Africa champions St Anthony’s Kitale beat compatriots Upper Hill 2-1 to inch closer to reclaiming the title. Basil Wamalwa and Kadius Wafula scored for St Anthony’s, while Eugene Onyango scored Upper Hill’s consolation goal. Kisumu Day edged St Mary’s Kisubi 1-0 to register their first victory. Kenya’s Upper Hill and St Anthony’s Boys Kitale yesterday lost their respective football matches on day two of Brookside East Africa Secondary School Games here in Gulu. The 2002 regional winners St Anthony’s went down 2-1 to homeside and 11-time winners St Mary’s Kitende in a Pool B match at Gulu High School. Kenyan champions Upper Hill suffered their second successive loss, going down 4-2 to Alliance Boys from Tanzania in their Pool A encounter. Upper Hill had lost 3-2 to Uganda’s St Mary’s Kisubi in their first match on Saturday. St Anthony’s had taken a 17th-minute lead through James Kibande’s drilled in shot that left Kitende goalkeeper Derrick Ochan with little chance. The goal came after relentless pressure from St Anthony’s who started on a high pace in the thrilling encounter that drew large crowds.   Upper Hill beat Rwanda’s Eteni 59- 49 in their first match.