IN LONDON Team Kenya members held their first training at a park situated next to their London hotel on Wednesday morning ahead of the World Athletics Championships that start on Friday. The team that braved the chilly and drizzling morning conditions to train included marathoners David Wanjiru, Geoffrey Kirui and Gedion Kipketer. Kenya’s feared steeplechase brigade led by world champion Ezekiel Kemboi and Olympics champion Conseslus Kipruto also took part in the morning shake down under the watchful eyes of their David Leting. Kemboi and Conseslus vowed to uphold Kenya’s tradition of dominating the steeplechase. While Kemboi wants to seal his chequered career with a fifth consecutive victory, this being his last World event, Conseslus is out to make amends after playing second fiddle to Kemboi in the last two events. He could have previously won the world and Olympic titles in Osaka and Beijing respectively but experienced Brimin Kipruto wants to end the drought.   Then there is also Jairus Birech, who reigned supreme in Diamond League Series in 2015 and is now gunning for his maiden major championships medal. It’s only Birech who is yet to win an Olympic gold medal while both Kemboi and Brimin have world titles. Conseslus, who has recovered from an ankle injury sustained during the Kenyan trials, has issued a warning to all upstarts. “I have recovered from the ankle injury and I am ready for London. I have really enjoyed training with my team-mates who know our mission.” Conseslus said the competition in the team was healthy because it produces serious intent rather than enmity. “That is why we have been able to dominate at the Worlds and Olympics,” said Conseslus, who was gunning for a sub 8 minutes in Rabat and Monaco but the ankle injury put paid to those plans.“For me it’s important to become a world champion after failing on two occasions,” said Conseslus adding that inexperience cost him in 2013 Moscow while poor tactics was his main handicap in 2015 Beijing. VITAL LESSONS “The lessons learnt were vital and that is why I won at Rio Olympics,” said Conseslus. Conseslus reckons the final will be a tricky and highly tactical race. “I just can’t wait to see how things play out in London,” said Conseslus. “I promised to sign off with a podium place in London after my bronze medal was taken away at Rio Olympics,” said Kemboi, who is ready to lead from the front as Team Kenya captain. “The competition will be between ourselves. Our rivals pose no major threat.” “It’s long since I won a medal for Kenya and London will be the place to end my drought,” said Brimin, who won the 2007 Osaka World Championships and 2008 Beijing Olympics before settling for bronze at the 2015 Beijing World Championships. Birech was hot favourite going into 2015 Beijing, having won the 2015 Diamond Series but his dream for the title came a cropper. “We shall read from a different script in London, God willing. I am determined to win a medal,” said Birech, the 2014 Africa champion. The men’s steeplechase final will be held on Tuesday.   The 30-year-old will leave a huge gap for track and field to fill.