Gem Suites have opened up a new as yet undiscovered second complex in Riverside, just off the main road on Riverside Lane. These luxury serviced apartments live up to their name, and their predecessor, on State House Crescent. OF KENYAN ART AND MUTED COLOURSThe elegant tastes and d cor bely a taste that is opulent in its choices, and skilful from the deeply brown leather couches in the as yet officially unopened cigar lounge that match the quality wood tables with no edges, to the simple striped accommodating couches in Argenti, the restaurant. Before me and mine went to eat at said restaurant, of course we had to go have a look at the rooms and revel in them. The one and two bedrooms are very spacious, done up in creamy beiges and browns, with a touch of black and paintings for colour. A different, man cave-like sitting room setting at Gem Suites. PHOTO| ABIGAIL ARUNGA Aside from the (Kenyan) art on the walls and the sinuous stained window inserts, one of my favourite indulgences (before dessert) was the sinful softness of the rugs right next to most of the beds. I know, strange, but who doesn't like a rug that your feet happily sink into? The muted colours lend themselves to rest and relaxation, and even double up, if need be, as a background for business.The penthouses are on another level, literally and figuratively, spanning across three wood-hewn levels of sitting rooms, in plural, bedrooms and bathrooms, including a jacuzzi, storage space and an expansive view of a glittering Nairobi skyline to boot. A jacuzzi in one of the Gem Suites rooms. PHOTO| ABIGAIL ARUNGA Little things mean a lot, which is why the little things are what I notice in this setup the convenience of the placement of televisions, lighting fixtures, WiFi, which is a must for most Kenyans and huge all-encompassing glass windows. Ok, that one wasn't so small!When we finally got to the restaurant, I wanted to try everything on the menu, as every foodie would. Luckily, there was more than just me to my party and so I had a chance to try out everyone else's food, because that's what friends are for, ha. On the cocktail front, the drinks are mixed very well. Pierre, the F&amp;B Manager, made sure that we were quickly and sufficiently attended to, regarding drinks, food and service. A perfectly mixed Long Island Iced Tea at Argenti. PHOTO| ABIGAIL ARUNGA The Long Island Iced Tea was in a shorter glass than usual but still packed a punch. Because I'm a whisky girl, I had the Oriental Cocktail, which is whisky, triple sec, Angosutra Bitters and Lime Juice. Yes, it was nicely sour. A whisky sour, if you will? Never mind. And the prices are good too, averaging at 750 KES a cocktail.For my main course I had the largest burger I've ever had in my life. It had avocado, bacon, a juicy thick patty, onions, cheese and it came with fries. The biggest burger I've ever had. PHOTO| ABIGAIL ARUNGAJust look at the picture. I couldn't believe I finished it, while still managing to taste other people's ribs so soft, so delicious chicken, both the wings and the whole one so good!Anyone for ribs! PHOTO| ABIGAIL ARUNGASucculent and delicately flavoured chicken wings & A close-up of the whole chicken. PHOTO| ABIGAIL ARUNGAI don't know how I had room for the chocolate lave cake for dessert but I did, ha. Chocolate Lava Cake with a scoop of ice cream at Argenti washed down with a mocha. PHOTO| ABIGAIL ARUNGA The cake melted in my mouth.It's a very rich cake, so you might want to have something to wash it down on deck. Then have someone else on deck to roll you out through the doors after your Argenti experience... email print email print