As Kenyans voted on Tuesday, Nairobi’s Starehe constituency, where a youthful crop of contenders battled it out for member of Parliament and member of county assembly seats, was of keen interest to many. Starehe stands out for various reasons. Firstly, its electorate rejected the old guard and nominated enthusiastic, young, idealistic dreamers… some with a record of fighting for worthy causes. It sent a message that youth no longer want to wait, but want to act, to speak about their future and be seen as equals. Secondly, an analysis of social media and street comments showed that pundits were closely watching Starehe, not only because it boasts the largest number of voters in the city (160,000), but also for its fruit salad bowl of parliamentary candidate. From a musician, Mr Charles Njagua Kanyi, popularly known as Jaguar, whose interest in politics surprised many, to an activist, who is a radical alternative to the status quo. GLOBAL INTEREST It is the latter who has captured national and global interest.  As an activist, Mr Boniface Mwangi, 34, has introduced a different political campaign characterised by a marriage of door to door conversations and high-end marketing tactics; a fundraising strategy that has stirred public debate as it appeals to the haves and have-nots (asking for as little as Sh10) and promises that appeal to the mind and heart. His well-documented past, coloured with its bold use of imagery to fight against corruption — recall the pigs in Parliament — and his knack for mobilising the masses, whether it is to reclaim grabbed school fields or to speak against extrajudicial killings grabs imagination. His foray into politics has raised pertinent questions, key of which is: Can activists transition to electoral politics? ACTIVISM There is a thin line between the key variables in activism and politics. Activism is about people, which keeps the politics of power in check. Activists are deliberately controversial because it gets their causes attention, but beneath the controversies is the motivating principle — representing the voice and will of the people. If political activists maintain the principles that fuelled their fight on behalf of the community, they can become successful principled politicians. Activists know their communities’ needs and demands; and this knowledge informs their positions on issues if they are elected to office. POWER TO ELECT Depending on how they deliver, the community they represent will not only have the power to elect and keep them in their jobs, but also to vote them out if they sell out. Mr Mwangi’s transition from activism to politics mirrors a history coloured by personalities like Ronald Reagan, a Hollywood activist who became one of the most influential presidents in America; John Kerry, whose first entry into politics was as leader of Vietnam veterans against war; and Nelson Mandela, an anti-apartheid activist, became president. Kenya needs political candidates with integrity and intelligence. Activists are one of the few sources of talent willing to take the heat and mud that come along with running public office. FRUSTRATED While there are activists who made politics a success, there are many who get frustrated by the compromise of the environment once in office, and the discovery you must “play the game” to get stuff done. His win, if he wins, will be a win for youth and a new dawn for Kenyan politics. It will be an inspiration that voting for leaders who are ready to die for a cause that is beyond their tribe, is not a waste of votes. Starehe will test if Kenyans are ready to vote politicians not because of deep pockets but because of integrity and intelligence. Ms Mbiruru is a communication specialist based in Nairobi. Ann.Mbiruru@yahoo.com  