A tree in Nyeri’s Kiganjo Forest is now at the center of attention after 26 people committed suicide at the spot. The latest is a 30-year-old man whose body was found hanging from the tree, known locally as Muthigi, on Wednesday. The man, identified by police as David Muriuki from Kirinyaga County, had hung himself on the tree a few metres from the Nyeri–Nanyuki road near Chaka. MOTIVEAccording to residents, this incident alarmingly raised to 26 the number of people who have committed suicide at that exact spot in the last seven years. Most, they say, have preferred a specific tree that is several metres from the highway. This is the same tree where Mr Muriuki ended his life. He hang himself using an old bed sheet that had been tied in two knots. Police are yet to establish why Mr Muriuki hang himself. INVESTIGATION What was puzzling however was why he chose to take his life so far away from home. Police said versions given by the locals and several officers suggest Mr Muriuki could have been mentally ill. Kieni East divisional police boss Everline Musyoka said the matter was still under investigation. “He is usually seen loitering around town carrying a sack and borrowing money. He seems mentally ill,” Ms Francisca Kirigo, a local, said. NON-RESIDENTSAccording to Ms Kirigo, this was not the first time they were witnessing such an incident. “Since 2010, I have seen at least 26 bodies of people who hanged themselves here. "People come from different places to end their lives here. There is another tree a few metres from here where some hang themselves,” Ms Kirigo said. Most of the bodies were discovered by herders who alerted police. PERSONALITYA look at some of the cases recorded show that most people come from other regions to hang themselves there and even though the cases are viewed to be coincidental and isolated, there is no explanation to the choice of tree. According to psychologist Mercy Wambui, when it comes to suicide, the method or place is mainly determined by character or personality. “Mostly people’s choice on where or how they commit suicide is based on their personality. "For instance, narcissists will opt for a place and method that will be noticed by many, like jumping off a building. "Introverts however will opt for a quieter and secretive way and spot,” Ms Wambui said. REPUTATIONIn the case of Kiganjo Forest, she said, it could be that the victims are drawn by its infamous reputation. “Someone might have heard that people hang themselves there and decide to also go there,” she said. PRAYER Over the past years some religious leaders who believe that the tree is haunted have held prayers on several occasions to cleanse it. Others had even suggested cutting it down but authorities barred them, arguing that it was superstitious and irrelevant since those who want to take their own lives would do it somewhere else.  