Kenya s Mark Otieno bowed out of the World Championships when he finished sixth in the second round of his men s 100m race at the London Olympic Stadium on Friday night.However, Otieno, who clocked 10.37 seconds, might have failed in his bid to make the semi-finals but he had made history as the first Kenyan to compete in 100m at the world event. I will not give up yet I have just started and I thank God for this far, said the 24-year-old Otieno, who now turn his focus to the Commonwealth Games next year. I will go back to training and refine my blocks start even though the false start destabilised my game plan, said Otieno, who will now compete in men s 200m starting Monday with the heats.Otieno had advanced through the preliminaries after finishing third in heat one, having recovered from a slow start to clock 10.40 seconds.He lost the first heat Liberian Emmanuel Matadi in 10.27 followed by Rodney Brendon from Canada in 10.37.The 24-year-old was elated as he made history as the first Kenyan to compete in 100m at the World Championships. It s a good experience and I am happy to qualify to the next round, said Otieno. I know it gets harder as things progress but I will give it my best shot. Otieno said he is glad to have seen Olympic and World champion Usain Bolt even as he hangs his spikes on Saturday. He has been such an inspiration to me and it feels great. Otieno was representing Kenya for the third time after competing in 100m at the 2015 African Games in Congo and 4x200m at 2017 World Relays in Bahamas.It s at the Nationals where Otieno clocked 20.41seconds in 200m to qualify for the World Championships before breaking the national 100m record in a new time of 10.14, missing the World Championships standard time of 10.12.In an early interview, Otieno attributed his improvement this year to change of coaches to his currently tactician Hillary Wesonga. My program changed hence my speed and endurance, which were lacking, said Otieno. Different workouts and by prayerful nature is behind my good progress too. Otieno s talent in sprints dates back to when he was in class one at St Juliet Primary School in Nairobi, perhaps drawing the traits from his late grandmother Calsina and his father Paul Onyango, who were sprinters. His father, who is based at National Intelligent Service, competed for Police in 100m and long jump. email print email print Otieno was elated as he made history as the first Kenyan to compete in 100m at the Worlds.