On the morning of August 14, 2016, Monique McOwino traveled to Nairobi with her 3 children; Sean, 6, Mercy, 5 and Melvin, 3. She headed to Dandora, where her sister Lydia Iregi lived. As the afternoon approached, the family sat outside their house in the ‘plot’, catching up, the children playing nearby, the gate locked. Then in a sequence of less than five minutes, they noticed Sean wasn’t there. Sean is autistic. His speech is impaired. The family always kept a close watch on him. During our interview, his Aunt Lydia is still a shadow of bewilderment; “It’s as if one minute he was there, then the next he wasn’t,” she whispers, “someone forgot to shut the gate behind them and Sean got out. “Sean hadn’t been gone for longer than five minutes,” Lydia says, “He couldn’t have gone far. A lady who owns a shop outside the gate said she’d seen him go this way and that way. We followed the route. But there was no trace of Sean. How fast had he walked? Remember he is in a new place… he had just arrived that morning. Also remember that he doesn’t speak. Could someone have picked him? Could he have gotten into a car?” The whole family and some neighbours joined in the search. At 5pm they reported to the police. On the police’s reaction, Lydia shakes her head and smirks pitifully, “they said they'd let us know if any child was brought,” she says “at least they would have made an effort to take a patrol car and go looking.” When night came, they hadn’t expected that Sean would be gone that long. Enoch Mudavadi shakes my hand in that respectful gesture, clasping his wrist at the same time, and politely declines my offer of a cup of tea. He rests his elbows the table, slightly droops his head forward and waits. I shift and make a light-hearted remark about the weather – it’s a freezing July afternoon. His mood doesn’t shift. He is a broken man. On the evening of October 1, 2016, Mudavadi came back home around 4pm whereupon he and wife set out on a 1 km walk from their residence in Mukuru Kwa Njenga to Donholm to do their monthly shopping. His wife was heavily pregnant – her due date on the 21st of the same month. They left their 4 year old daughter Monica in the company of a cousin of the same age. “It wasn’t unusual for her to be in the company of the neighbourhood kids,” he narrates, “So we didn’t think much of it.” Mudavadi and his wife parted ways at Donholm, he went to Kayole to watch a soccer match. “At around 6, while watching the game, I got a call from her sister saying they couldn't find Monica.”   BETWEEN HOPE AND DISBELIEF From where the matatu dropped him, Mudavadi literally ran home, finding Monica’s mom and her sister crying, the neighbors in a panic. “We looked for almost 3 hours,” he says quietly, then pauses for a while, overcome with emotion. He struggles to collect himself. “At around 10 pm, the age mate who had been left with Monica told us that while they were playing at a nearby clearing where there was a ‘crusade’, he had seen a man give Monica a bottle of water to drink from. The child said that the man then carried Monica over his shoulder. I wasn’t sure whether to believe him – he is just a child. I wasn’t ready to believe that Monica was lost.” They reported to the Mukuru Kwa Njenga Police Station at 1am, the authorities told them they’d let them know if they ‘heard anything’. “All this time, I am still thinking Monica will come,” he stresses, “besides I am trying to be strong for her mother. When I am overcome with emotion, I go outside and cry then go back to the house and comfort her.” Due to the stress, Monica’s mom’s labor came sooner than expected. On October 10, 9 days after Monica went missing, she delivered the couple’s second child, Dwayne, through a caesarean section. For both families, 24 hours after the disappearance of their children began a long and drawn out trudge towards finding them. Both scored through children’s homes – near and afar. “That week we went to all of them. Some of the smaller unregulated homes would refuse for us to enter and search because they suspected us of being authorities.” They also left posters at police stations around Nairobi. Days after Sean went missing, a child who seemed to fit Sean’s description was found in Kayole. “Because of Sean’s poster being on Facebook, we received so many calls and notifications – everyone believed it was him. We went to Kayole but it wasn’t him. When we were coming back, Monique was sick – her blood pressure was up.”Mudavadi’s also begun by knocking on children’s homes’ doors. “I stopped going to work,” he narrates, “every morning I left my wife and walked around Nairobi. Every night she expected me to bring her some good news. Every night she cried. It was really hard time for me; I am a casual laborer so if I miss work I miss pay, my wife is expectant and my child is missing.” SELF-RELIANCE “Months on, the police are still saying they will let us know if something turns up,” Lydia says, “as a matter of fact when we go there they ask us how far we have managed to find out.” This, she says, has left them no option but to rely on themselves. Most recently, she went to the Dandora Dumpsite and looked through the hordes of street kids who live there. “I have even looked in another spot that street kids hang-out in Pangani.” Several lost children have been brought to her home for identification. None have been her nephew. What is her worst fear? She answers that question with a terrifying story. “A lady called me and said they had just seen a child,” She narrates, “I told her to keep the child there till I come. She hesitated then said there was no need to keep the child because he was dead. My heart stopped. The mom was somewhere else also searching so my other sister and I went to identify the body. It wasn’t Sean.” Through the neighbourhood's rumour mill, word reached Mudavadi that a girl fitting Monica’s description had been seen in a certain house where she had been kept for a few days before she was removed. “When I went to the police so they can accompany me there they told me to go to the plot, wait till the man who rents that house got home, then call them so that they can come and arrest him.” He says the authorities have asked him for money, “I told a cop that I had 500 bob. He laughed and said ‘you are not serious!’ I have since lost my faith in them.” So far he has spent over 60,000 shillings of borrowed money to follow up on leads; “I have asked my wife to go up country for a while. The truth is I am just too broke to sustain them right now because of all the debts. My desperation has even made me ‘plant a seed’ in churches for prayers. But as soon you plant, the church officials start avoiding you. I have lost my faith in pastors as well. I have had a prophetess tell me to stop looking for Monica because visions show her that Monica is dead. But you know what? I would rather see her body. At least if there was a grave, I would know for sure where my daughter is. My worst fear is I have heard that this election period little girls are offered up as sacrifices to ensure wins.” Con artist haven’t spared him either. “A man called me and said he was a taxi driver and that he had carried two ladies and a child called Monica to Naivasha. He said he was in Nakuru and if I sent him 2500 shillings to fuel his car he would take me. Before I knew it was a con, I was so desperate that if I’d have had the money I’d have sent it.” “I DREAM OF HER” January 29 was Monica’s birthday. Mudavadi bought a cake, an act he thought would attract positive vibes towards finding her. “But no-one ate it,” he says, “her mother is still very distressed – I come back home to find her she has laid Monica’s belongings on the table. My mother, after whom Monica is named, got a stroke since she heard about her disappearance.” Amid the melancholy, he shows traces of light as he says, “Monica is such a bright child. In fact we had contemplated her skipping Baby-Class. She would be in Kindergaten now. Like right now when I am alone in the house, I lie there and imagine her running to me. I dream of her. Where is she? Wherever she is, is she been treated well? Is she alive?” Maryana Munyendo is the founder of Simba Safe Kenya /Missing Child Kenya (MCK). It is through (MCK) that Maryana worked with both Lydia and Mudavadi – and hundreds of other parents and guardians like them. “Many parents don’t know what to do, especially amid the panic and confusion” she says, “that’s where we come in. As soon as we get notified, we help them prepare a conclusive poster with fine details of the child’s description. We then post it on our public Facebook forum. We also assist in linking them up with other child protection services.” Both Sean’s and Monica’s posters went up on MCK’s Facebook forum a day after they went missing. Many of the possible leads that they continue to receive emanate from here. Where do the children go? “There is the case of getting separated,” Maryana says, “but also cases of child trafficking for labor and orphanage entrepreneurship (for donor funding) are real. Some are stolen for sale to infertile women; some steal boys for (African) legacy purposes. Kids get caught up in custodial battles so one of the parent ‘steals’ the child from the primary custodian. Some children are runaways.” Maryana has worked with 227 families from June of 2016 to June of 2017, “Remember these are just the few that are aware of MCK or have the wherewithal to access social media. The cases that worry me the most are the ones I don’t know about. Sometimes good Samaritans find children and decide to take them home with them. That’s not bad but first you must report to the police and insist that you get an OB number so that it is documented.” LOST AND FOUND Her most fulfilling moment, of course, is when a child is reunited with her guardians. “For those who are still missing, Maryana insists that unless a case turns out as a fatality, MCK never chalks any as a cold case. “Our job is to keep reminding people that this child is missing – no matter how long it takes.” She however points out that she works in collaboration with other organizations, the media and the public, “It takes a village.”   Reporting to the police and making a statement, while necessary, has not yielded any result for Lydia and Mudavadi. With the mobilization of the public on social media already yielding considerable results in terms of spreading information, we wondered if there could be a more innovative way for technology to aid authorities in tracing and actually finding missing persons. So far, the closest thing we have to this innovation is MCK’s collaboration with Ushahidi, the locally developed, globally acclaimed mapping software. The software was developed to map reports of violence in the 2008 post-election violence. Since then it has been used by organizations around the world to collect data from situations on the ground – helping in disseminating information and in swift crisis response. Chris Mukuria, Ushahidi’s Innovation Engagement Officer tasked as the lead in facilitating MCK’s platform, shows me development stages of the project; where reports of a missing child will appear as pins on the map. “Essentially, this is a tool that enhances the consolidation and management of data. Data always tells a story. So in the long term, the data findings will help organizations flag problems and inform solutions. The role of organizations such as MCK and Ushahidi is to provide the tools. In the end it is up to the authorities to take the practical measures.” Months after their children have been missing, these ‘practical measures’ have been left up to guardians like Lydia and Mudavadi, who spend their days scrolling online and turning up the city’s back-alleys following up on leads.  