More than 23,000 primary schools will be used as polling stations during Tuesday’s election with the government issuing tough guidelines on the usage of the facilities. Several secondary schools and colleges have also been identified for tallying of votes across the country. There is a total of 40,800 polling centres. The government has directed school headteachers to take an inventory of the properties that will be handed over to the electoral commission for conducting the elections. The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission  officials will be required to hand the facilities back to the headteachers and forced to compensate for any school property destroyed during the period. “Institutions that will serve as polling stations must secure their moveable properties and a status report prior to Election Day be prepared in order to ensure the same state after the exercise,” said Education Principal Secretary Belio Kipsang. In a directive to education officials, Dr Kispang said the safety and welfare of the learners and staff as well as that of facilities at the institution is of great importance to the Education ministry. Schools closed on Friday to allow the institutions to be used during polls and will re-open on August 23 for the start of the third term which will also be an examination period for Form Four and Class Eight students. “Schools should beef-up security by liaising with local security committees,” added Mr Kipsang. During party nominations, several schools had their facilities damaged by goons hired by different candidates who were competing for party tickets. Most of the 312,000 teachers have also been appointed as presiding and returning officers for the polls. Their employer – the Teachers Service Commission (TSC) – has advised them to exercise their democratic right by electing leaders of their choice. “Inevitably, institutional managers, teachers, students and other members of learning institutions will participate in this process,” said TSC Chief Executive Officer Nancy Macharia in a circular to teachers. Ms Macharia also reminded institutional administrators to ensure that the properties of their institutions were safeguarded and protected from damage. “Further and equally important, teachers who will be engaged by IEBC to realise a peaceful and credible election, are reminded that as public officers, they must at all times during the exercise  uphold the law and conform to the tenets of responsible citizenship,” she said.   Raila says his dream to take Kenyans to the ‘Promised Land’ is now more than a dream.