When Mr David Miingi, 66, married his wife Margaret Muthoni, 63, over 30 years ago, he meant every word he uttered when he vowed to stay by her side and love her in sickness and in health. However, not once did he think that these wedding vows would be put to test within the course of his marriage. And certainly not so soon after. For the first nine years of their union, all was well. PAIN After that however, Muthoni started developing a myriad of health problems, which would come and go. “It started with the feet,” Miingi recalls. “She would complain of pain while walking, and once in a while, her ankles would ache.” Concerned, he took his wife for a check-up at a nearby clinic. “The clinical officer examined her and recommended that she get checked further for arthritis, as that is what he suspected. "Sure enough, when the tests were done, it was found that she had rheumatoid arthritis.” ATHRITISUnknown to them, this would be the beginning of a long journey in and out of hospital. Things started becoming complicated and uncertain soon after the arthritis diagnosis. “My wife developed problems with her respiratory system, specifically her lungs. "She could not breathe properly and would run out of breath after simple activities such as climbing a short flight of stairs. "I took her to hospital, where she was admitted and treated then later discharged,” Miingi says. TREATMENTBut the problem recurred, this time accompanied by ailments such as enlargement of the heart and malfunctioning kidneys. Due to this, Muthoni, a teacher, would regularly miss work. Her journey in and out of hospitals continued unabated, each time with a new set of symptoms, which demanded a different set of treatment. This went on until the couple met a doctor who seemed to have an idea of what was going on. “The doctor told us he suspected that my wife had lupus, but to be certain, took blood samples, which he sent to Germany and Britain for further testing,” Miingi says. LUPUSThe doctor had been right; when the samples came back, they revealed that Muthoni had systematic lupus. The doctor explained to them that this was an autoimmune disease, which develops when the immune system, whose duty is to defend the body against disease, instead attacks the healthy cells. An autoimmune disease can affect one or many parts of the body. This means that the disease could easily be mistaken for many other diseases, including arthritis, which Muthoni had been diagnosed with. CULTUREThis diagnosis was made in 1982, at a time when the disease was rare in the continent. As the couple grappled with this new discovery, their neighbours back home were backbiting them, some claiming that Muthoni had been cursed. Then, never-ending health complications that did not seem to have a cure were often attributed to curses. There are also those that believed she was HIV-positive, since some of the symptoms related to lupus are similar to those of HIV and Aids. “My wife had rashes all over her skin, which also bruised easily – if she scratched herself, the scratch would develop into a deep wound that had to be stitched closed in hospital. "At the same time, due to the various medications she was taking, she lost all her hair as well. "We were also told that she was susceptible to blood clotting. We could only hope and pray that when it happened, it wouldn’t take place in say, the heart or brain,” Miingi recalls. HOSPITALHe continues: “We were constantly in and out of hospital, and at one point, she was placed in the intensive care unit; her health was that fragile. This diagnosis also meant that Muthoni was no longer able to carry out most activities, activities she had once done with ease, such as washing dishes and mopping the house. She no longer had the energy to do it. She also could no longer take care of her children. “Due to the debilitating fatigue caused by the disease, it was also not possible for my wife to work, especially since her teaching job required her to stand continuously for 40 minutes to an hour, as well as actively engage with her students,” Miingi explains. FAMILYSuddenly, Miingi was the sole bread-winner in their home, besides taking over most of the duties of raising their young children. “When in such a situation, you have to adapt fast – I quickly took over the duties that had been my wife’s - household chores such as washing clothes, cooking, and preparing our children for school every morning.” To fulfil these responsibilities, and to ensure that his wife consistently got the treatment she required, Miingi, a social worker by profession, had to make a couple of sacrifices, including cutting down on socialising, since, with one income, and mounting medical bills, he could not afford to waste even a cent. “I constantly turned down invites to go out with friends since my wife needed constant care. "My children were also very young, and I was determined to give them a good life despite the problems we were facing.” AUTOIMMUNEToday, thankfully, Muthoni is much more comfortable since the symptoms eased after she turned 50, a common factor in lupus patients. She is on life-long medication though, and leads a relatively normal life. What is this lupus? According to Dr Fredrick O. Otieno, a consultant physician and rheumatologist at the Aga Khan University Hospital in Nairobi, Systemic Lupus Erythematosus (SLE- Lupus) is an autoimmune disease, which means that the immune system, your body’s defence system, produces antibodies that attack the body’s own tissues, causing inflammation. “Lupus can affect many different parts of the body, and when internal organs such as the heart, lungs, brain or kidneys are involved, it can be much more serious,” Dr Otieno says. “However, most people will only have one or a few of the possible symptoms, and these symptoms will come and go - this is what leads to misdiagnosis of the disease.” SYMPTOMSDr Otieno notes that lupus is about nine times as common in women as in men, and more frequent in younger people – only about one in 15 cases are diagnosed after the age of 50, when it tends to be less severe. Rarely does lupus affect children, and it is unusual before the age of five. Here are some of the symptoms linked to the disease that you should be on the lookout for. “It’s common for a rash to develop over parts of the body that are exposed to the sun, including the face, wrists and hands. "A butterfly-shaped rash over the cheeks and the bridge of the nose is especially common,” the rheumatologist explains. HAIR LOSSHe continues: “Some people with lupus notice that their fingers change colour in cold weather, going first very pale, then blue and finally red. "This is called Raynaud’s phenomenon, and is caused by narrowing (constriction) of the blood vessels, which reduces the blood supply to the fingers or toes.” “Another common symptom of the disease is hair loss. This symptom can be severe in some people with lupus. "Joint pain is also common in lupus, especially in the small joints of the hands and feet. The pain tends to move from joint to joint and is often described as ‘flitting’.” KIDNEYAs with any other disease, lupus may lead to some complications in the span of its treatment. “Around one in three people with lupus have significant inflammation of the kidneys, and kidney damage can sometimes occur. "Kidney inflammation can be treated successfully in most patients if it is identified early, with regular urine, blood pressure and blood testing by your doctor.” For treatment to be successful, one must take the prescribed medication because this is the only way to ensure that the kidneys are not permanently damaged.SIDE EFFECTSLupus can also cause high blood pressure, particularly if the kidneys are involved. Steroid tablets, which are often used to treat lupus, can raise blood pressure particularly when used in high doses. The disease can also contribute to the development of high cholesterol, which should be checked yearly with a blood test and treated if necessary. “Lupus may also affect the bone marrow, causing anemia and a reduction in the number of platelets (cells that help the blood to clot) and/or white blood cells. "Blood-related problems like anemia tend to be more common in children with lupus,” Dr Otieno explains. NORMAL LIFEThe drugs used to treat lupus will depend on the severity of your disease and the affected parts of your body. Your treatment will probably be changed or adjusted as your symptoms flare up or improve, advises the doctor. “On the bright side, despite the disease having no known cure, one can still lead a full and normal life with proper medication and care,” the doctor adds. One factor that Miingi and Dr Otieno agree on is that the management of lupus in the country has to be improved. DIAGNOSIS From a medical perspective, Dr Otieno observes that the diagnostics for lupus are quite costly. “Laboratory tests needed to diagnose Lupus are quite expensive and out of reach for majority of Kenyan Patients, also, these tests are not easily available in public facilities.” He further notes that: “Patients also require additional tests to monitor the disease, making it quite expensive for many. "Also notable is that the drugs used to manage SLE are not available in the public health system. Patients thus have to privately buy the drugs, which are quite expensive.” AWARENESSThere are also few rheumatology clinics in the country. All of them are based in Nairobi and Mombasa, leaving the wider population needing to travel far to access these services. To mitigate the above challenges, he suggests a wider stakeholder involvement to create awareness and to advocate for better service access to lupus patients. Access to affordable diagnostic services and drugs should also be made accessible to patients. TRAININGIt would also be greatly beneficial if public and private health insurance companies tailor make policies that target patients with lupus, and other autoimmune diseases. In Miingi’s opinion, there is need for awareness to be created on the disease, with the aggressiveness in which other diseases, such as cancer, are given. “The medical field needs to be keener in the diagnosing and treatment of the disease. "Doctors should interact more with the disease to note the symptoms that it presents to put a stop misdiagnosis.” SOCIETYHe also believes it is crucial that the society is sensitised on this disease to stop those with the disease from being stigmatised or judged. “One of the dominant symptoms of lupus is fatigue, therefore, those unaware of this symptom may assume that one is simply lazy, yet in reality, one is suffering. "This kind of sensitisation is especially important in the work place. "Further, employers should be educated on how to handle employees with lupus.”  