If there is any form of development that benefits the entire society without discrimination, it is investment in infrastructure. A proper road network not only stimulates the creation of wealth but also enhances social cohesion and integration. There is a strong correlation between a country’s economic development and the quality of its roads. Roads are at the heart of our social and economic development as they facilitate trade by connecting people and improving the movement goods and services. JAMS In the last four years, the government has made significant efforts to improve the country’s road network, through the Ministry of Transport, Infrastructure, Housing and Urban Development and Nairobi, has been at the centre of this transformation. Known for its endemic traffic jams, and considering that 60 per cent of the country’s wealth (gross domestic product) is generated here, it was necessary to upgrade the city’s road network. In the last six years, many roads, including bypasses have been constructed and others rehabilitated. They include the Thika Superhighway; Southern, Northern and Eastern bypasses; and the expansion of Ngong, Upper Hill and Eastleigh roads. Key to this transformation is the Sh8 billion construction and modernisation of Outer Ring Road, which is to be commissioned in the next few weeks to serve the populous Eastlands. This area houses over 2.6 million or 60 per cent of the city’s population and its most active workforce. The old 10-kilometre two-way single carriageway carried some 1,040 vehicles per hour per lane, stretching its design capacity of just 800 vehicles. ACCESS In 2014, some 40,000 vehicles used the road, occasioning a massive Sh50 million loss due to incessant gridlocks. A trip from Ruaraka to the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport, would take two hours. All this will be history with the ongoing dualling and improvement of the section between the Thika Road and Eastern Bypass junctions. Easing  access to the airport will cement Nairobi’s status as a regional trade logistics hub. An improved and modern Outer Ring Road is expected to improve accessibility to the Eastlands, reduce travel time for commuters and increase property value, besides boosting business for informal traders. By improving the road, the annual vehicular Green House Gas (GHG) emission rates are expected to drop by at least 70 per cent due to improved average traffic operating speeds along the project corridor, particularly, with the integration of the Bus Rapid Transit System envisaged by the year 2022. Work on the 13-kilometre project, which includes loops and ramps for interchanges and additional lengths at junctions, involves the construction 10 footbridges, service roads, grade separated intersections and provisions for non-motorised traffic (walkways and cycle tracks). The project also includes the relocation of informal traders to a designated market. NEGLECTED As an integral addition to the project, the contractor will also build a wholesale market for fresh produce at Sh868 million. This will create jobs for residents, especially women, while economically transforming the hitherto economically neglected area. The project has seen more than 500 young people who used to hawk along the corridor trained to acquire life (including HIV/Aids awareness) and technical skills in the past three years. This milestone project is expected to improve the city economically and put it strongly on the path to achieving Vision 2030 developmental goals. It is instructive project that apart from Outer Ring Road, the government has also upgraded several roads in the Eastlands to create a viable and robust network.  They include Komarock Road, Eastlands roads, Eastleigh roads, Lunga Lunga, Nanyuki Road, Enterprise and Likoni roads, Lusaka Road, Mumias Road and Industrial Area roads. Plans are underway to dualise the Eastern and Northern bypasses and with this, Outer Ring Road might acquire a new name, say Inner Ring Road. In appreciation of the infrastructural transformation, many businesses have started shifting to the Eastlands. Of note has been the establishment of huge supermarkets, malls, go-downs, industries and production parks. Investors appear keen to take advantage of the availability and proximity to labour, transport, export and import facilities that the unprecedented investment in a modern infrastructure has spawned.  Mr Kinoti is the acting director-general, Kenya Urban Roads Authority (Kura). info@kura.go.ke  