The 21-year-old woman who was killed alongside electoral agency’s ICT manager Chris Msando was strangled, possibly using a rope, a post-mortem has revealed. READ: Chris Msando died a painful death READ: Woman killed with Chris Msando - PHOTOS The body of Carol Ngumbu had marks on the neck. Chief government pathologist Johansen Oduor said “the cause of death was asphyxia due to ligature strangulation”, which loosely translates to inability to breathe due to tight tying of the neck. BURIALThe post-mortem carried out Thursday at City Mortuary was witnessed by Ms Ngumbu’s family and police. Even though the family refused to talk to the media, the Nation learnt that they transferred the body to Kihara Mortuary, which is near their home in Gachie, Kiambu. A source close to the family said that burial arrangements are yet to start. INVESTIGATEAt the same time, Inspector-General of Police Joseph Boinnet said investigators on the two murders have recorded statements from six people. Four others, he added, were being hunted by police over the murders. Msando murder: 6 record statements Mr Boinnet described them as “persons of interest”. “I appeal to Kenyans to allow the family time to mourn and give the security agencies space to investigate this matter. We are determined to arrest the murderers and bring them to justice,” Mr Boinnet said. MUGUGA FORESTMs Ngumbu had just completed her studies at Kenya Medical Training College in Karen and was due to graduate in December. Her body was found last Saturday a few meters from Mr Msando’s at Muguga Forest in Kikuyu. Just like Mr Msando’s, her body was stripped to the underwear. MISSINGAn earlier autopsy conducted at Lee Funeral Home on Wednesday revealed that Mr Msando had also died from strangulation. “He died from strangulation and he also had incisions on his right arm, but the rest of the body was intact,” Dr Oduor said. Ms Ngumbu and Mr Msando were last seen together on Friday after which it was reported that the IEBC manager was missing. READ: IEBC's ICT manager Msando goes missing FRIENDSMs Ngumbu’s sister Jedida Wanjiku said that the two had known one another for months and on that Friday, they had gone out for drinks. Mr Msando’s family on Wednesday appealed to police to accept the help of foreign agencies like FBI in the investigations. Meanwhile, the government has been sued over Mr Msando’s death by former Law Society of Kenya boss Apollo Mboya. STATE SUEDBusinessman Jacob Juma, who was killed last year in May, is also on Mr Mboya’s list, among others. Mr Mboya on Wednesday sued the Director of Public Prosecutions, IG Boinnet, the Director of Criminal Investigations and the Attorney-General. He wants them ordered to produce probe reports of all missing persons and extra-judicial killings from February 2008 to date.   Family identifies her as Carol Ngumbu, a KMTC graduand.