Agro-input company Elgon Kenya’s has partnered with a Dutch organisation to take animal health services closer to farmers.The company, which launched an animal health department recently, has signed an agreement with The Netherlands based Interchemie Werken De Adelaar to distribute the latter’s products. Under the arrangement, Elgon Kenya will supply the company’s products that include veterinary medicines, nutritional products, minerals salts, milk replacers and disinfectants.“This partnership is timely as it comes at a time when the livestock sector is facing new and emerging challenges that have threatened to wipe out gains made,” Bimal Kantaria, Elgon Kenya Director (right), said. He cited outbreak of dangerous livestock diseases like Contagious Caprine Pleuropneumonia (CCPP), Peste des Petits Ruminant (PPR), Contagious Bovine Pleuropneumonia (CBPP) and foot andmouth disease as some of the challenges the sector is grappling with.Kantaria said the animal health department was established to respond to growing demand for livestock products among smallholder farmers. “We used to get many farmers calling our offices requesting us to consider establishing a livestock unit.” The company has animal health professionals who work with farmers across the country offering timely interventions. “This partnership is coming at a time when we have just launched this new department. It will help us provide modern and timely solutions to a sector that continues to make marked contribution to the economy,” Kantaria added. Arnold Kiel, the sales director at Interchemie Werken De Adelaar, said the company is confident of the cooperation and is looking forward to grow its brands.“Elgon Kenya has well-established sales and distribution network which we believe our European brands will benefit from. We are convinced that the livestock products will contribute to the solutions Elgon offers to farmers and clinics in Kenya,” he added.    Much awaited mombasa show to kick off next week The Mombasa agricultural show will start next Wednesday offering farmers a chance to showcase their products and learn various technologies for better production.Agricultural Society of Kenya CEO Batram Muthoka, said the show that will run until September 3 will also seek to encourage the youth to engage in agribusiness to create jobs.Farmers, according to him, should expect to learn skills on animal husbandry, improved dairy cows and goats and chickens. “Farmers will have a lot to learn on innovations and technology for them to achieve higher yields to boost their incomes and as well help the country achieve food security since successful farmers will showcase their activities,” he said. The fair is expected to attract 150 exhibitors up from 120, and close to 200,000 visitors. Top farmers will also be feted during the event.– Mathias Ringa  