Small parties reaped big in Kisii County in the recent General Election. Kenya National Congress and People’s Democratic Party were the greatest beneficiaries, each winning two parliamentary seats. The National Agenda Party took one. ODMJubilee Party now has two MPs while the Orange Democratic Movement’s influence has waned significantly. It did not win any parliamentary seat. The county has nine constituencies and 45 wards. WINNERSPDP’s Innocent Obiri and John Oroo Oyioka won the Bobasi and Bonchari seats, respectively. Mr Zadoc Ogutu, an independent, is the Bomachoge Borabu MP-elect. Bomachoge Chache and South Mugirango constituencies will be represented by KNC’s Alfah Miruka and Silvanus Osoro, respectively. Mr Ezekiel Machogu of NAPK is the new Nyaribari Masaba MP. DEATHJubilee won the Nyaribari Chache and Kitutu Chache North seats. There was no parliamentary election in Kitutu Chache South following the death of Jubilee candidate Leornard Mwamba in a road accident just days to the election. READ: Jubilee MP candidate dies after crash DEFEAT KNC leader Manson Nyamweya, who unsuccessfully attempted to unseat Governor James Ongwae, told the Nation that he is happy with his party’s performance. “I conceded defeat but I have not lost everything because my party is stronger than ever,” he said. The former South Mugirango MP said he would keep strengthening his party. “I will work with KNC elected leaders to popularise our party countrywide,” he said. UHURU KENYATTAMr Nyamweya however stressed that his sympathies still lean towards the opposition. “KNC is and will remain in the National Super Alliance,” he said. His PDP counterpart Omingo Magara said his party would work with President Uhuru Kenyatta, adding that Jubilee would develop the country. Mr Magara was beaten in the Senate race by Prof Sam Ongeri of ODM. WARDSThe small parties also shone at the ward level. PDP took the Masige East, Bombaba Borabu, Marani, Bogetenga and Boikang’a seats. The Bobaracho, Ibeno and Nyamasibi ward seats were won by Kenya Social Congress while Masige West, Ichini and Borabu Chitago went to Kanu. Wiper candidates won the Riana, Nyakoe and Keumbu seats as PNU got Bobasi Chache. Bugusero was taken by KNC. Ford-K took Nyatieko as CCM won in Birongo. MCAsJubilee won the Sameta/Mokwerero, Bobasi Boitangare, Nyacheki, Boochi/Tendere, Bosoti /Sengera, Monyerero, Kisii Central and Tabaka ward seats. ODM won the Basi Bogetaorio, Bokimonge, Magenche, Majoge Basi, Bomariba, Bomorenda, Sensi,  Bogeka, Gesusu,  Kiamokama, Masimba, Getenga and  Kitutu Central ward representative positions.  