President Uhuru Kenyatta has urged Kenyans to continue with their normal businesses as the Supreme Court handles a case on presidential results. “The Judgment will be made and whatever the outcome you should continue peaceful co-existence. It doesn’t matter the outcome, Kenya will still be here. Love one another and live together as brothers,” said President Kenyatta. National Super Alliance on Wednesday announced that it will take its objections to the outcome of the August 8 elections to the Supreme Court. He also urged Kenyans to maintain peace and co-exist together as citizens of one nation to enable faster development and improved quality of life.   During a meet the people visit at Kenyatta Market in Nairobi, the President said wananchi have no need to fight one another over politics. “Leave us to sort our issues as leaders. Politics should not make you fight. When this market burns down it will not affect one community but all of you,” said the President. SWORN IN “I have seen all Kenyans doing business here. In this market there are Kambas, Merus, Luos, Kikuyus and all Kenyan communities. Please continue living together peacefully. Be your brothers keeper,” he added. Nairobi governor-elect Mike Sonko pledged to improve services to Nairobi residents saying once sworn in, he will start reducing license fees for small-scale traders. Mr Sonko urged the residents of Kibra to leave politics to politicians and continue their normal lives.   INCITE “You should continue with your daily activities as residents of Kibra and traders here at Kenyatta Market just as you have been doing before and after the General Election,” said Mr Sonko. “Leave us as leaders to tackle our political battles but don’t allow any person to incite you into violence. We have seen those who allowed themselves to be incited losing lives while those who incited them continue enjoying themselves,” he said. The President said he had urged Sonko to ensure he changes the image of Nairobi city by improving on service delivery to wananchi. “ I thank you for voting my friend Sonko, I have asked him to ensure he changes the image of this city. He will sink a bore hole here to ensure constant water services to the traders in this market,” said President Kenyatta.  