The Kenya Human Rights Commission on Monday took its fight with NGOs Coordination Board executive director Fazul Mahamed to court in what the lobby described as a bid to salvage its long-standing reputation. Through lawyer Nzamba Kitonga, KHRC challenged an August 14 directive to strike out its certificate of registration. The agency argued that it was never issued with a notice to give an explanation on the matter, or any opportunity to be heard before the action was taken. ACCUSATIONSAccording to the lobby, its image, internationally, is bound to suffer since it had been “maliciously” accused of tax evasion; money laundering; misappropriation, embezzlement and diversion of donor funds. “As the leading human rights organisation in the country, KHRC maintains the highest levels of financial and operational integrity. "It demands the same of the public authorities it seeks to keep accountable,” Mr Kitonga said. He termed the order arbitrary and unlawful as it violates KHRC’s right to fair administrative action. DELISTEDHe said KHRC had complied with the law yet the directive poses a grave risk to its operations. KHRC has sued the NGOs Coordination Board in a case in which the Law Society of Kenya (LSK) is listed as an interested party. The LSK wrote to the board on August 15, protesting against the deregistration of the rights group. “The executive director of the NGOs Coordination Board, in an act of vile abuse of office and sheer impunity, has purported to direct the collection of taxes, the freezing of bank accounts and the deportation of persons,” KHRC’s George Kegoro said. “The conduct is a negation of the rule of law, the principles of natural justice and a clear violation of the letter and spirit of the Constitution.” BANK ACCOUNTSIn the case documents, the lobby says it was wrongly accused of opening and operating four illegal bank accounts, failing to pay Sh100 million taxes to the Kenya Revenue Authority, employing expatriates without valid work permits and making false declarations in its annual returns.   Hunter becomes the hunted as the national rights defender exposes NGOs regulator.