“At the bottom of all the tributes paid to democracy is the little man, walking into the little booth, with a little pencil, making a little cross on a little bit of paper — no amount of rhetoric or voluminous discussion can possibly diminish the overwhelming importance of that point.” Sir Winston Churchill — House of Commons, October 31, 1944 Millions of Kenyans tomorrow troop to the polling stations to cast ballots for their preferred leaders. FUTURE They will vote in representatives to the various legislative bodies, that is, county assemblies at the devolved level and the National Assembly and the Senate at the national level. They will also make their choice of leaders at the executive level, these being governors for each of the 47 counties, as well as the president for the national government. Those votes will not merely be about endorsing the candidates for various representative and executive offices, but about a people determining the future of the nation, and by extension their own futures. SERVANTSWhile it is often said that democracy is about the people choosing their preferred leaders, it is more essentially about a people giving employment to those they charge with carrying out certain tasks on their behalf. In that regard, those elected are not leaders, but servants. Every citizen wants his or her country run in a certain way and, therefore, has a civic duty to take part in the appointment of those tasked with the job. EMPLOYMENTEvery Kenyan wants access to quality and affordable health care, education, housing and other social services. Every citizen wants an equal opportunity to advancement in a career, profession or business. Kenyans want freedom from poverty. They want employment opportunities that will unleash the potential of otherwise idle and helpless youth. SAFETYAll Kenyans deserve the opportunity to provide for themselves and their families the basic nutritional needs — from three meals a day, and to never again be hostage to cyclic periods of drought and food shortages. All want to live in safety and security, to go about their daily lives in peace without constant threats of terrorists, bandits, criminal gangs, cattle rustlers and ethnic militias. Each and every household should take the provision of electricity, clean piped water and other utilities as a basic need that is all too often lacking. INFRASTRUCTUREAll-weather roads leading to every part of the country, and expanded railway networks to the furthest corners of Kenya, are among the basic infrastructure Kenyans should be demanding. They should also expect, by right, reliable public transport services so that they can travel in safety and comfort within all towns, and to all parts of the country. All want a united country not riven by communal and ethnic hatred and suspicion; where all groups share in the national wealth; where access to development and public resources is not discriminatory; and where diversity is a strength rather than a weakness. PURPOSEThese expectations will not be met by miracle. It is the elected servants of the people who will be tasked to formulate and deliver on the policies that should realise such basics. That is why it is important to vote. A vote is not just about satisfying an individual’s selfish quest for office, but about the citizen putting in place the person who can meet his expectations for a better life, and a better country for all. DEMOCRACYKenyans fought and shed blood to be free of colonial subjugation, and for the democratic right to elect leaders or representatives of their choice. They fought and shed blood again for the ‘Second Liberation’ to depose the one-party dictatorship and establish a true democracy. The person who elects not to exercise the democratic right to vote, therefore, betrays those who sacrificed to secure those freedoms. Not voting amounts to wilfully disenfranchising oneself. MANIFESTO It also means that one strips himself of the right to demand of those elected to office diligent and honest performance, and meeting electoral promises or assigned tasks. That is why all who are eligible to vote must without fail exercise that most basic of fundamental rights to elect their preferred representatives. Candidates for the presidency and all other elective posts down to that of MCA have traversed their constituencies, asking to be elected. They have outlined their programmes and policies, and unleashed an array of campaign promises. CHOICEBut ultimately, they will not elect themselves. That power lies in simple men and women of this country who were conscientious enough to register as voters. They have had ample opportunity to listen to the candidates, weigh their promises, and assess their suitability for office. Now they make the choice.  