Election materials had by Sunday reached most regions in the country, with the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission saying it was ready for Tuesday’s polls. In the North Rift, elections coordinator Jacktone Nyonje said the region had received election materials for all the 868 polling stations. “We’ve received all the materials and we are in the process of packaging them for distribution to various polling stations,” Mr Nyonje told the Nation. SECURITY Uasin Gishu county Commissioner Abdi Hassan said security arrangements had been put in place. “Each polling station will be allocated two security officers. We will however deploy additional security personnel in some areas if need arises,” Mr Hassan said. In Baringo, IEBC elections coordinator Mohammed Gurre said his team had received election materials, and had already distributed them to all the six sub-counties, among them Tiaty, Mogotio, Eldama-Ravine, Baringo Central and North. BALLOT PAPERS In Turkana County, IEBC officials started receiving ballot papers by Saturday noon. Turkana Central constituency returning officer Bernard Mutali said they had received the first batch of ballot papers for four elective positions and were waiting for ballot papers for senate and governor positions. In Bungoma, ballot papers arrived safely and have been distributed to all polling centres. County IEBC coordinator David Katitia said officials were ready for the polls. “We have received all the polling materials and we are ready to go, let all area residents turn up to exercise their democratic right on Tuesday,” he said. DISTRIBUTEIn Nandi, county returning officer Catherine Wandabwa said preparations for the voting were complete. “We have accomplished all the necessary logistical arrangements to ensure the exercise will be carried out smoothly.” In Nyeri, IEBC manager Allusia Kanini said the batches of ballot papers were received on Friday and were being distributed from the constituency tallying centres to the polling stations. “On Monday everything will be ready,” Ms Kanini said. POLLING CENTRESIn Meru, returning officer Macharia Gichichi said they are prepared for Tuesday elections, with all strategic materials distributed. In Isiolo, county election manager Solomon Mudanya said all the materials had been distributed to the 156 polling stations. “In areas where we might experience network problems, satellite phones will be activated and used during transmission of results on the evening of the election day,” he added. In Wajir, materials were received on Friday and Saturday. SHABAAB County elections manager Patrick Gatuma said they began distributing the materials to four sub-counties on Saturday. “We are determined to do our best and so far everything is in the place. I believe we are good to go,” he said. In Lamu, elections manager Mohamed Adan said elections materials were received at Manda airport Sunday morning. “We have made plans to ensure the materials reach all their destinations in time. "In Basuba, where there is the challenge of security, we will use helicopters to ferry our officers and the materials to all the five polling stations in the area. "People in those areas should rest assured that they will vote come Tuesday,” Mr Adan said. SUCCESSIn Kilifi, county returning officer Nelly Ilongo said preparations were in top gear, especially at the main county tallying centre at Pwani University. “We have trained our personnel who also took their oath and we are putting the final touches on the logistics. "The ballot boxes are already in every constituency under tight security. They are safe and secure and we are ready to go,” she said. In Homa Bay, county returning officer Michael Kosgey said they had ensured that ballot boxes were distributed to constituency tallying centres. “We have placed adequate measures to ensure the process runs smoothly without hitches,” Mr Kosgey said. DISPATCHIn Kisumu, returning officer John Cox Lorionokou said ballot papers had been distributed to all seven constituencies. In Kakamega, returning officer Grace Rono said poll materials were received on Friday and would be distributed to respective polling stations Monday. In Nakuru and Samburu, ballot papers had been received and were being distributed. In Nyandarua, county IEBC manager Gideon Balang said polling material had been received and were awaiting release on Monday. SAFETYIn Narok, County IEBC director Anastasia Mutua said her officers were packaging the polling material for distribution to the six constituency tallying centres today. Narok county commissioner Moffat Kangi said adequate security would be provided during and after the Tuesday elections. — Reporting by Vivian Jebet, Joseph Wangui, Bruhan Makong, David Muchui, Wycliff Kipsang, Sammy Lutta, Philip Bwayo, Florah Koech, Barnabas Bii, Titus Oteba, Kalume Kazungu, Kazungu Samuel, Elizabeth Ojina, Benson Amadala, Barack Oduor, Anita Chepkoech, Magdalene Wanja, George Sayagie, Waikwa Maina, Godfrey Oundoh and Steve Njuguna  