Kenya’s national women’s football team will make a maiden appearance in the Cosafa Cup next month in Bulawayo, Zimbabwe. The tournament, organised by the Confederation of South African Football Associations (Cosafa), is open to all its 14-member countries including Madagascar, Seychelles and South Africa. Kenya is the only country that has entered the competition on invitational basis this year, taking the place of Tanzania who played as a guest nation in 2011 when the competition was last held. Football Kenya Federation formally accepted the invite on Friday morning, thereby bringing the number of teams that have confirmed participation in this year’s competition to 12. With the Kenyan juniors in the running for the Fifa Under-20 World Cup with a qualifying match against Ethiopia set for on August 4 and another invitational tournament to Jordan for the Under-20 team set for September 9, FKF has resolved to send the women’s senior team to the Zimbabwe tournament. The Cosafa Women’s Cup is similar to the Cecafa Women’s Championship which was held for the first time last year in Jinja, Uganda, but which has been scrapped from the regional body’s list of activities for this year. Harambee Starlets are now expected to regroup immediately after the Kenyan General Election to prepare for the tournament. In this year’s competition, hosts Zimbabwe, Botswana, South Africa, Lesotho, Madagascar, Mauritius, Mozambique, Namibia, Swaziland, Zambia and the Seychelles have all confirmed participation. Zimbabwe are the defending champions of the competition which returns after a five-year hiatus largely occasioned by lack of funds. In the last Cosafa Women’s Cup edition played in Harare in 2011, Zimbabwe beat South Africa 1-0 in the final at Rufaro Stadium as Tanzania, playing as guests, finished third after beating Malawi 3-1. The competition will be held between September 17 and 26 at the Barbourfields Stadium and the Queens Sports Club in Bulawayo. This will be Starlets’ first international engagement this year.  