The Law Society of Kenya (LSK) has called for calm as the tallying of the presidential results continue. In its preliminary report on the elections, LSK President Isaac Okero told all aggrieved parties of the August 8 polls to file their complaints in court. KIEMS SYSTEM Mr Okero further said that he was satisfied with the elections system, Kenya Integrated Elections Management Systems, which worked well in most parts of the country in voter identification. "We plead with Kenyans to remain calm as we wait for the declaration of the results of the presidential election and of all other elective posts," Mr Okero said. JUDICIARYHe went on: "We remind political leaders and candidates that, for the election dispute resolution process, the Judiciary and the Bar are both adequately prepared." Deputy CJ: We have enough judges for poll petitions The Raila Odinga-led National Super Alliance (Nasa) has disputed the results being displayed on the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission's (IEBC) website, claiming the results were manipulated in favour of Mr Uhuru Kenyatta after the system was hacked. So far, the results put Mr Kenyatta (Jubilee Party) in the lead. HACK Nasa has said that its candidate is the rightful winner, hence have pushed the Wafula Chebukati-led agency to declare Mr Odinga the winner. The IEBC had said that there was an unsuccessful attempt to hack its system and is investigating the matter. IEBC: There was attempt to hack system, it failed FORMS 34AOn the results transmission and subsequent relaying of the Forms 34A from the polling stations, Mr Okero was non-committal on the LSK’s position, but pointed out that during an August 2 simulation, the two (text and the forms) came in concurrently. "The live demonstration shown to the members of the public, press, political stakeholders and members of the diplomatic corps one week before the election day showed to all the scanning of forms 34A from various polling stations..... all in real time," Mr Okero said. ISSUE Nasa says that the results being beamed by the electoral agency should be accompanied by the forms. READ: What are Forms 34A and 34B? - VIDEO As at 2pm, the IEBC had 117 constituencies tally forms 34B and only 1,032 of the 40,883 polling stations had not transmitted forms 34A. OBSERVERS The LSK, Mr Okero said, deployed volunteer observers from its membership distributed in various parts of the country. "The Law Society of Kenya is in the process of receiving and analysing observer reports submitted via the Election Observation Management System (LEOMS). "A comprehensive report on the observation mission shall be issued after the conclusion of the ongoing election process," he said. CREDIBLESo far, Mr Okero said voting went on well apart from a few reported minor incidences. "The electronic voter identification devices (EVIDs) largely functioned correctly and the process was completed without substantial disruptions in most of the polling stations. "The KIEMS appears to have functioned without any operational flaws and the voting process was largely free, fair and credible." SECURITYMr Okero appealed to the IEBC to maintain the highest form of transparency during tallying. He also asked security agents to remain non-partisan and professional.  