Former Internal Security Cabinet Secretary Joseph ole Lenku was Friday sworn in as the second governor of Kajiado County. Immediately after being sworn in, Mr Ole Lenku promised to serve the people of Kajiado irrespective of their political affiliations.   During the function that took place at the Maasai Technical Training Institute, in Kajiado, the governor identified priority areas that his administration will focus on including water provision, expansion of health and education facilities. He also promised to solve perennial problems in the land sector by fighting corruption. EDUCATION Outgoing governor David Nkedianye was at hand to hand over instruments of power to his successor and promised to offer advisory services whenever called upon. Mr Ole Lenku was sworn in by Justice Stephen Riechi. The colourful ceremony was attended by three Cabinet secretaries, Cleopha Mailu (Health), Joe Mucheru (ICT) and Phyllis Kandie (Labour). Also present were members of President Uhuru Kenyatta family, Mr George Muhoho, and Ms Kristina Pratt.   Mr Ole Lenku was sworn in alongside his deputy Martin Moshisho. On education, Mr Ole Lenku promised to partner with the Education Ministry and other development partners to establish a local public university that shall offer practical courses and skills that meet social economic development needs of the people of Kajiado. CONGESTION Noting that many people in Kajiado County, especially in the rural areas travel long distances to access healthcare, the new governor promised to upgrade the county referral hospital into a Level Five hospital as well as providing incentives for private investments in the sector.   He also promised to ease congestion in Kitengela and Rongai by constructing bypasses. On the issue of land Mr Ole Lenku promised to introduce orderly land use and “root out corrupt land dealings.” “Key land related challenges in our county include a weak land property management system twinned with corruption, haphazard land segmentation and use without regard to orderly physical planning and economic zoning,” he said. On the issue of county revenue he promised to seal avenues of wastage and corruption by automating revenue collection. COURT Dr Nkedianye of ODM told the gathering that he opted to attend the swearing for the sake of Kajiado people and the future generations. “I am aware that there were irregularities in the elections; I would have gone to court like others are doing but decided against it because Kajiado is bigger than Ole Lenku or I,” said the former governor. During the ceremony, Mr Ole Lenku received blessing from elders of the Iseuri age group, who poured milk on his cultural Maasai staff. The elders, led by former Kajiado Central MP David Sankori wrapped the new governor with endeer, an animal skin to signify his ascension into leadership position.  