Former Kenya Basketball Federation men’s Premier League champions Co-operative Bank will take on high-riding Umoja at Upper Hill School as second leg action resumes on Saturday. Fixture secretary Joseph Amoko said Friday that six return leg matches, originally scheduled for Sunday, have been cancelled to a later date because Zetech University and MKU Thika teams are on vacation. Zetech University was to play Ulinzi Warriors Sunday at 2.30pm while Zetech women’s side was to meet Eagle Wings. Amoko added that he was working on a revised second leg fixture to accommodate rescheduled matches. Co-op Bank lost their last match 63-67 to champions Kenya Ports Authority while Umoja rocked Zetech University 65-58 in their last outing. Coach Carey '9' Oketch of Co-op Bank has had enough time to prepare to harvest maximum two points against tricky newcomers Umoja. Umoja, on the other hand, are a team to watch this season after shattering Ulinzi Warriors unbeaten record by demolishing the soldiers 54-48. New signing Allan Ouma from Co-op Bank is expected to team up with Michael Munene, Martin Okwako and John Washika against the bankers. After losing 55-80 to champions KPA and 60-83 against Equity Bank in their last two assignments, Thunder coached by Collins Gaya, will be seeking to rediscover their winning ways when they lock horns with fading Lions at 4pm. It will be guard Abel Nson, Jack Agunda and Brian Ondari calling the shots for Thunder in a tie they must win to remain in the running for the six-team play-offs. Lions have only won three matches and lost 12 which leaves veteran Dennis “Dikembe’’ Opiyo, Harrison Kaundia and Brian Kuria with the daunting task of registering victory. In Division One league, World Hope will square it out with University of Nairobi’s Terrorists starting at 11.30am, Blazers will take on NIBS while Little Prince will meet Emyba. Barclays Bank, who defeated Zetech University 74-62 before the competition took a break, will face Kenya Airports Authority starting at 1pm. Experienced, reliable scorer Franklin Delano, Mike Lopokoyit and Abel Kimondo will be the key actors for the well prepared bankers. Barclays are confident of qualifying for the play-offs as they head the 13-team table standings with 31 points from 14 wins and three losses. KAA are bottom with 14 points after having only won one match and lost 13 and whether they have corrected their mistakes to upset the well focused bankers remain to be seen. FIXTURES Saturday Little Prince v Emyba (8.30am), Blazers v NIBS (10am), World Hope v Terrorists (11.30am), Barclays Bank v Kenya Airports Authority (1pm), Co-operative Bank v Umoja (2.30pm), Lions v Thunder (4pm).  