Security services have been asked not to deploy a larger number of personnel than is necessary. In an interview with Sunday Nation, European Union Election Observation Mission Chief Observer Marietje Schaake said while it is necessary to guarantee every Kenyan of their security, it would be counter-productive to the electoral process to use security personnel to intimidate and disenfranchise the electorate. “We observe what we can see and we don’t go by allegations. "We look at the total picture of preparedness and as we discussed in the context of (electoral commission ICT manager Chris) Mr Msando’s death and the responsibility of those who organise these elections as well as the rights of Kenyans to vote peacefully. INTIMIDATE "There is a role for the security services to make sure that in areas where it may not be safe that they provide security. "But of course overbearing or deploying more personnel than is necessary could intimidate people. "It is a thin line but an important one and we are talking to security forces to ensure they achieve this balance,” Ms Schaake said. READ: How Chris Msando died RIGGINGIn the course of campaigns, Nasa has alleged that its opponent, Jubilee Party, was planning to use the police as election officials and to also deploy the military to intimidate Opposition supporters or provoke them to violence, claims the security agencies have denied. Nasa presidential candidate Raila Odinga released to the public documents that he claimed were explaining the military’s plans to disrupt the elections and rig in favour of Jubilee. READ: Police recruited as poll officials MILITARY On the documents, the government has been speaking out of both sides of mouth, with the military initially confirming the authenticity of the documents but saying they were quoted out of context before Defence Cabinet Secretary Raychelle Omamo later trashed them. “The ministry has carried out investigations to establish the veracity, authenticity, and source of the documents recently submitted by Nasa to the press. "We can state categorically that these documents are fake,” Ms Omamo said on August 1. VIOLENCEBefore he released the documents, Mr Odinga had also released an internal police memo for the deployment of 42 officers on “special duties”, which the Opposition claimed were rigging plans. The police confirmed the authenticity of the documents but denied the rigging claims. Ms Schaake also appealed to political players and individual Kenyans to take personal responsibility and avoid incitement or engaging in acts of violence and that “people also need to appreciate that they may have to accept losing and gracefully congratulate their opponents”. “It is a normal part of democracy,” she said. WORRYIn early July, the EU mission had raised concerns that the country risks descending into post-election violence. In the interview, Ms Schaake said her July remarks were out of the concerns expressed to them by Kenyans. “If you look at my words, I have never warned of a possibility of violence. "I explained that there were people who brought it to my attention, saying that they were concerned. We are monitoring what’s going on,” she said. READ: Poll violence possible, says EU mission - VIDEO RIGHTSShe added: “It is also upon us to assess critically what we hear. We cannot take at face value every sound bite and every rumour. "We think and assess critically and look at multiple sources before we can be certain about a development. "We are in the middle of assessing this but regardless of what our conclusions will be on this aspect, it is every Kenyan’s responsibility to be his or her brother’s and sister’s keeper, to grant each other the right to vote according to how she or he wishes,” she told the Nation. The EU mission, which flagged off 32 short-term observers on Saturday, will be deploying more than 130 people for Tuesday’s elections. MSANDO PROBEMs Schaake also called on the government to bring to book those involved in the killing of Mr Msando. According to her, Mr Msando’s murder “sends shivers down the spines of Kenyans and it is important that the people who are now focused on the last part of the preparations can do their work securely and with full concentration”. “I have called for independent investigations, which I think is important. "I think that justice needs to run its course and that there is accountability for this heinous crime. JUSTICE "I believe that despite the shocking effect that it had, particularly on his immediate colleagues, those he left behind are working round the clock to meet all the preparations,” the observer said. She added: “Some Kenyans, unfortunately, expect people working at the IEBC to be some sort of super humans but they are normal.”   The last batch of officers will arrive at their destinations by Sunday.