Nasa leaders on Friday sought to consolidate their support at the Coast by reaching out to residents to vote for the coalition at a rally in Mombasa.Opposition presidential candidate Raila Odinga, his running mate, Mr Kalonzo Musyoka and ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi addressed a charged rally at Mama Ngina grounds in Mombasa that was nearly marred by sibling rivalry between gubernatorial candidates Hassan Joho (ODM) and Hassan Omar (Wiper).FINAL RALLIES Mr Odinga and his main challenger President Uhuru Kenyatta will on Saturday make their final appeals to voters. Mr Odinga will take his campaign to Nairobi while Mr Kenyatta will be in Kajiado and Nakuru.Coast residents overwhelmingly voted for Mr Odinga in the 2013 polls. The region however had the lowest voter turnout in the country. The region has 1.7 million voters.POLLING STATIONS Mr Odinga cited the high cost of living as one of the reasons why the Jubilee administration should be sent home. We have come to Mombasa with a message: Tuesday is a historic day, Mr Odinga, who urged locals to turn up in large numbers and vote for him, said.READ: Kenyans decry the high cost of livingHe however urged voters to go back home after casting their votes but go back to polling stations in the evening so that we go on with the plan of protecting our votes .LAND ISSUES The ODM leader accused the government of dividing Kenya into ethnic enclaves in appointments.He said a Nasa government would solve the land problem at the Coast. Uhuru does not know the land problem facing the people of the Coast. It is not about issuing title deeds. The problem here is historical injustice, he said. Nasa has the land medicine not Uhuru because Uhuru and his father are part of the problem. PROJECTS He said it was retired President Mwai Kibaki and himself who made the plan for the expansion of the Mombasa port and the building of the Standard Gauge Railway (SGR), which started operations on June 1. When they (Jubilee) took over, they increased the cost of the SGR by Sh160 billion, Mr Odinga claimed.Mr Musyoka said Nasa will win on Tuesday. We have the victory already. Kenyans problems include lack of maize flour. This is unga revolution. "This is a Nasa family and we will not be divided. But victory requires great discipline, he said, referring to the earlier squabble between Mr Joho and Mr Omar.MANUAL BACKUP Mr Mudavadi said Nasa would get 65 per cent of the votes, and also called for a huge turnout. There are two regions in this country that have traditionally not voted well: Western and Coast. If they vote 99 per cent, we will send Jubilee home, Mr Mudavadi said.At the same time, Mr Musyoka said the alliance is happy with the Court of Appeal s directive on the electoral agency s use of a manual backup should the electronic system fail. We want them to abide by the ruling given by the court, which directed that if there is system failure there should be a backup system, which includes the scanning of a voter s identity, Mr Musyoka said.APPEAL COURT His remarks came hours after the appellate court on Friday ruled on a case filed by Nasa, which sought to compel the electoral body to exclusively use electronic system during Tuesday s election. The court allowed the electoral agency to use the manual backup. The search for a voter s name however will be done in the presence of all agents and the voter will then fill form 32A before being issued with six ballot papers.Additional reporting by Fadhili Fredrick email print email print Hassan and Joho rivalry turns ugly.