Dancehall artiste Cara Feral (real name Cindy Abila) celebrated her birthday on August 3 by holding a fun day for the children of SOS Children’s Village in Buruburu. The artiste, who is signed to Majestic Trends, was joined by friends and her manager Andrew Otieno aka Otti Majestic as she spent the afternoon at the home in what was dubbed “Cara Feral Birthday Fun Day Party”. Cara is known for songs like “Take It For Love”, “Kati Kati” and “Woman of Steel”. She recently released an uplifting song titled “Hakuna Matata”.   Cara had put up a poster on her social media page inviting people to the party and urging them to carry dry food stuff, books, toys or cash donations to give to the home. She spent personal time with the children, taking selfies with them, while DJ Ice kept the music blaring to entertain the mostly orphaned children. Otti Majestic emceed the event which included musical presentations from the children, and dances and games. There were also snacks and drinks to go around. MOTIVATIONAL SPEECHES Nubian Flame, a reggae artiste, performed an acoustic set accompanied by guitarist Steve Anariko and percussionist Eric Mwangangi. He spoke to them about not giving up in life or falling to the peer pressure of drugs and crime, relating to his situation as a Kibera-born individual who has seen the tougher side of life too. Cara also told them to keep their heads held high even in their situation. The children sang to her a birthday song and some helped her cut the cake.   Cara said about her choice of celebration: “I didn’t want my birthday to be just about me, but to at least inspire a child and make them smile too. Not every child has an opportunity to celebrate a birthday, so I just wanted to have this moment with them. It’s my way of giving back to them.” The singer has had a relationship with the organization for a long time, and even uses the home’s hall for some of her rehearsals. She made the celebration a surprise for the children. She thanked all who had donated to her request, despite election fever being at its peak.  