Q. I have been the assistant accountant in my department for the last four years. In this period, I have acquired immense experience and feel the need to advance my career. There is a chief accountant vacancy opening in another department but my supervisor won’t let me apply for it - he refuses to sign a form that indicates he is okay with the move. What should I do?  I truly sympathise with you and feel your sense of betrayal by a supervisor whom you have served for four years. Before you succumb to hopelessness however, it is important to meet with him and understand his reasons for not recommending you. This could be around your performance, so prepare well for this meeting by having all the information you need to support your productivity, work ethics and commitment. A second reason could be around your cumulated work experience and how this meets the job requirements of the role. You need to be sure you match the requirements of this job. A good supervisor would most likely recommend a candidate who fully matches the required competencies, so before you pass blame, demonstrate to him how you match each of the competencies required and persuade him to recommend you. I am intrigued by your confidence on suitability for this role as your title, assistant accountant, suggests you are at the starting level in your profession. This means you would be competing for such a position with accountants and perhaps senior accounts who would have more relevant experience. I am not suggesting that to grow one has to follow all these traditional stages, but just to draw the fact that you are likely to compete with a team more qualified in terms of experience. You need a good strategy to be an outlier. I do agree that four years is good experience, and to continue doing the same job is likely to stagnate you. Do not feel limited to your current employer if you desire to grow, especially if your supervisor does not share your career aspirations. It may therefore be a good time to explore options outside this company, and indeed enrich your experience working for a different business sector. I have seen managers who limit their subordinate’s growth, and seen many who are passionate in coaching and growing talent. Finding a supervisor who believes in your career plans would be good for your future growth.  