Q. Why would a prospective recruiter be interested in knowing my salary history rather than request for my salary expectations? I have a feeling that most employers determine employees’ pay from how much they were previously earning even when the duties and responsibilities are quite different.  Organisations commonly have job groups under which various roles fall. Jobs are grouped based on their relative importance to an organisation. For each job group there is usually an associated salary range. Salary ranges typically allow individuals to have pay progression within a role over time. They could also provide flexibility that enables organisations to reflect differences in levels of experience within a given role. Where organisations do not have clear role and pay structures, there would be, however rudimentary and unscientific, an approach that allows some kind of salary differentiation between jobs. All roles in an organisation cannot attract the same salary. Prior to, or during salary negotiations, hiring managers typically seek to appreciate a successful candidates’ salary expectations to determine whether they fall within the organisation’s pay structure for the role in question. Where a candidate’s salary expectations are perched at a height above an organisation’s pay structure, a decision could be made to identify an alternative candidate. This is the case especially where such a candidate is not prepared to budge during salary negotiations. Where candidates possess rare abilities or highly specialised skills, an organisation might make exceptions. Pay considerations should ordinarily therefore be hinged on a pay structure and not a candidate’s salary history. Building pay structures around successful candidates’ pay histories would be a recipe for dissonance since each candidate will have a different salary background. It would also be impractical to base an organisation’s salary structure on candidates’ expectations. Accommodating every salary expectation would amount to disarray. Flexible organisational salary structures should provide sufficient room for negotiation between an employer and a successful candidate.  