Siaya Governor Cornell Rasanga has told all county workers who supported his opponents in the just concluded elections not to report to work Tuesday. Mr Rasanga, who was speaking during his inauguration ceremony, said that it is not right for the workers who were against his re-election bid to continue working in his government. However, it is not clear what law Mr Rasanga used to “sack” the county employees. A governor can hire and fire county executives, but only retains influence over other officials. The law gives a County Public Service Board the power to make appointments and promotions of staff in the county public service. The governor said that those who were against his re-election are well known and he will personally supervise their removal from the county government. Mr Rasanga won the seat after a spirited battle with Nicholas Gumbo (former Rarieda MP) and three other candidates. He garnered 195,000 votes against Mr Gumbo’s 178,000 votes. AUDIT PERFORMANCE He said that he will also audit the performance of all staff by subjecting them to annual performance contracting in a bid to rid the county of lazy officials, adding that he will not please anyone as he is serving his last term. “I want to tell those who supported all my opponents in the elections not to report to work [tomorrow]. Therefore, they are forewarned as I will not take a pen and paper to sack them but the public will do that. It is wrong for such persons to continue clinging onto county government offices,” said Mr Rasanga. Mr Rasanga, who was speaking at Siaya County Stadium, also extended an olive branch to his political opponents whom he asked to shelve their ambitions of petitioning his win in court and join him in the quest of transforming the county. He said that the decision to go to court will only subject Siaya residents to more suffering as they will lack essential services. He told those opposed to him that he would still beat them in the event that a by-election is ordered. OLIVE BRANCH “I want to extend an olive branch to all my opponents including those seeking to challenge my win in court. In 2013 Siaya County came face to face with a by-election whose effect is still being felt to date,” said Mr Rasanga. At the same time, Governor Rasanga said he will initiate talks with the striking nurses in a bid to ensure that they return to work. The governor said he will also coordinate the establishment of the Barack Obama University as well strengthening Odera Okang'o and Jaramogi Oginga Odinga universities. He added that he will also implement a school feeding programme to all the children in ECDE centres and ensure that the quality of education is improved. The swearing in ceremony was presided over by Lady Justice Lydia Ochode and was graced by all the six elected MPs and immediate former Nominated MP Oburu Odinga and a host of MCAs from the county.  