The son of a peasant farmer has been elected as MP for Kiharu, a constituency that over the years has been famous for the prominent politicians it produced. Mr Samson Ndindi Nyoro, 32, is now expected to fit in the shoes of former MPs Gikonyo Kiano, Ngenye Kariuki, Kembi Gitura and Kenneth Matiba. All these leaders linger in the memories of the constituents for their numerous contributions to the country. SCHOOL FEESBorn in 1985 at Gathukiini village, Gaturi Ward in Kiharu Constituency, Nyoro attended Gathukiini primary school and later proceeded to Kiaguthu Boys secondary school. However, due to financial constraints, the family decided that their son would join Kiambugi Boys Boarding School. This was not because it was cheaper but due to the fact that the school principal at Kiambugi was a family friend and understood the financial challenges it was grappling with. CLOTHES VENDORIn an exclusive interview with Saturday Nation, Mr Nyoro recounted how he started repairing shoes for his schoolmates at Kiambugi to compliment the money his mother managed to raise for his school fees. This became the way of life after his father, who was a carpenter in Thika town, died. For the love of education, Nyoro opened a kiosk, burned charcoal and sold second hands clothes during school holidays to raise money for fees and family upkeep. For him, this was the only way through which he could make sure that his dream in life of prospering and helping the needy did not come a cropper. UNIVERSITYNyoro, the last born in a family of four, completed his secondary school education in 2003 but had to remain in school working as a librarian in order to clear fees arrears of Sh30,000. Having passed the Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) examinations, Nyoro joined Kenyatta University. He managed to fund his education through the help of well-wishers, Higher Education Loans Board and the savings from the kiosk business. At the university, Nyoro started a food kiosk but it only lasted for two months. He tried his luck in student politics and vied for the post of congressman in the School of Humanity. “Due to the new exposure I got at the university, I started a business in shares. "I also vied for leadership positions in the school under the guidance of Mr Ngenye Kariuki, a renowned businessman and former Kiharu legislator,” Mr Nyoro said. STUDENT LEADERHis quest for student leadership paid off when he was later elected the Academic Secretary of Kenyatta University Students Association to represent students in the University Senate and University Senate Executive. Thereafter, he was also elected chairman of university students from Murang’a County. By the time he graduated, Nyoro had developed a keen interest in politics. He plunged into Murang’a County politics by assisting his favourite candidate for the Kiharu MP’s seat, Mr Irungu Kang'ata, in his campaigns. SUCCESSIONMr Kang'ata won the seat and as a gesture of appreciation, recommended Nyoro for appointment as Constituency Development Fund chairman. When Mr Kang'ata declared interest in the Murang’a senate seat last year, Nyoro saw this as an opportunity to succeed his mentor by vying for the National Assembly seat. “I was determined to complete the former MP’s projects as well as start a kitty to uplift the living standards of my people,” Nyoro said. AMBITION Having captured the seat, the MP-elect hints that he will lobby to be chairman of the Energy Committee in the National Assembly, a position that was held by former Kigumo MP Jamleck Kamau in the 11th Parliament. Nyoro thanks the electorate in Kiharu and other well-wishers for supporting him in his campaigns. He garnered 60,881 votes against his closest competitor, Mr Karanja Mburu, who got 35,181 votes.  