It’s without doubt a busy season at Football Kenya Federation, with four national teams actively involved in separate engagements. On Thursday night, Kenya’s second string men’s side — named “Team Kenya” and coached by Musa Otieno — will face Mauritania in Morocco in an international friendly. The contest is the first of two matches programmed to prepare this team for next year’s Africa Nations Championship (Chan) tournament which is set to be hosted in Kenya between January 12 and February 4. The match kicks off at 7pm Kenyan time at the 80,000-seater Grand Stade de Casablanca, same venue for Kenya’s next tie against the hosts on Monday. Cohesive unit “We have been working on a some things over the past week and are here to try them out. The aim is to build a cohesive unit and put up a good showing during Chan,” Nakumatt striker Kepha Aswani, who is the most experienced player in the 22-man squad, told Nation Sport. Also, the senior men’s team Harambee Stars will Thursday morning depart for Maputo ahead of Saturday’s high profile friendly against the host nation at the Estadio de Zimpeto. Stars head coach Stanley Okumbi is missing a host of key players including captain Victor Wanyama, Michael Olunga, Ayub Timbe, Johanna Omollo and Eric ‘Marcello’ Ouma for various reasons ahead of this clash against the Mambas which also seeks to fine-tune the team ahead of an enticing 2019 Africa Nations Cup qualifier against Ghana in Nairobi next March. UNDER-20 WOMEN WIN Besides, the Kenya Under-20 women squad is currently in Jordan for a series of friendlies. On Tuesday, the Caroline Ajowi-coached team defeated the hosts 2-0 at the Petra stadium in Amaan, with Ibinzo Secondary School prodigy Cynthia Shilwatso scoring both goals. “We are happy with the result but the most important aspect is to build a team that can compete at the highest level in the foreseeable future,” said ajowi. Having already defeated Botswana 7-1 on aggregate in the opening round of the 2018 World Cup qualifiers, this youthful team is now preparing to face Ethiopia in the next qualifying phase on September 15. Meanwhile, Harambee Starlets players are in camp from August 27 under the tutelage of new coach Richard Kanyi. The side is a guest team at the regional Council of Southern Africa Football Associations Women championship in Zimbabwe between September 13-24.  