Saturday marks the end of the official campaigns. The main political parties have scheduled major rallies in Nairobi and Nakuru to make their last pitch to the voters. It has been weeks of gruelling campaigns which, except for sporadic cases of violence, were largely controlled. FACTORSNow, the onus is on Kenyans to make their decisions at the ballot box on Tuesday. We urge the voters to exercise this solemn civic duty with utmost responsibility. Voting should be determined by the capacity of the candidate to govern; not spurious and parochial considerations. Unfortunately, the elections have always been determined by ethnic and sectional interests. GOVERNANCE The result is that we have ended up installing in position of authority people without competence and aptitude for the job. Not surprisingly, we have continued to suffer serious economic haemorrhage, wanton plunder of public resources, marginalisation and poor governance. In 2010, the country ratified a new Constitution that re-engineered the governance structure by creating and strengthening various institutions and dispersing powers from the centre to the grassroots. DEVELOPMENT Among others, it created counties and decreed how national resources would be shared. After four years of experimenting with the county governments, we have realised their potential in national development through equitable resource sharing. But again, we have learnt they are veritable chambers for expropriation of public resources. LEADERSHIPPart of the lessons learnt is that the Constitution is not the panacea of all the ills afflicting our land. What is required is proper and credible leadership that believes in constitutionalism and listens to the wishes of the people. As we make decision on the next crop of leaders, the citizens must ask themselves tough questions: what is it that they stand for? What will they offer? How suitable and prepared are they to tackle the challenges afflicting the country? IEBCCrucially important, the elections must have meaning to the people; they must see that their votes count. Elections must be transparent and credible. Thus, it is incumbent on the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) to midwife a truly and acceptable election and save the country the path of destruction.  