Long before the electoral commission officially declares who will form the next government, Kenyans will have known the identity of the new president and, hopefully, come to terms with it. The reason why it was found necessary to wait for a whole week before the official declaration of the election winner is clear. Never again should a president be sworn in at night as happened in 2007. MISCHIEFTherefore, giving a chance for anyone with a grievance to challenge the outcome makes a great deal of sense. Nevertheless, this one-week wait may lead to a number of challenges. The whole country will be in a state of limbo, a situation that can only invite iniquitous mischief. UNCERTAINTY It could even lead to post-election violence (God forbid) if those who cannot entertain the idea of defeat conclude they have nothing to lose and vent their frustrations on fellow Kenyans. This may explain why a number of people, including election observers who have flocked to Kenya, religious leaders and the business class are worried. They cannot be sure the declaration of results will not lead to violence however free, fair and credible the elections may have been. POLITICIANS Too many political players have conditioned their supporters to violence by repeatedly saying the only way they can lose is if they are rigged out. This kind of talk is extremely dangerous. When religious leaders raise the alarm saying they are aware of gangs that have been hired to cause chaos, then we ought to sit up and take notice. PEACE When armchair pundits silence those calling for peace with the argument that they should be advocating credibility in the polls as the only guarantee for peace, then they are actually war-mongering. After all, it is not as though those two concepts are mutually exclusive. It is probable that the framers of the elections laws were aware that failing to declare the presidential results as soon as practicable may be a recipe for mayhem but chose to ignore the ramifications, deciding this is a far better solution than a hurried pronouncement. WINNER My view is that although it is better to err on the side of caution, leaving millions in a state of confusion for too long may be even worse. They, in fact, may have overlooked one thing. Even before the end of voting in the next two days, Kenyans may already know who between President Kenyatta and Opposition leader Raila Odinga will have carried the day. IMPATIENCE We live in the Information Age, and by August 9, the outcome will be clear. That is why, in the final analysis, the one-week wait may not be wise after all. Nature abhors a vacuum and this period between the end of the voting and the declaration may be one week too long. PARLIAMENTHaving got that out of the way, maybe the next thing to look at is what happens after the election itself. Many commentators have speculated that when the dust settles and the 12th Parliament convenes for its first sitting, there will be a great reckoning. What happens if the new president does not get a clear majority in Parliament? This scenario is likely, depending on how independent candidates perform. SABOTAGEIf no political party or coalition enjoys a “tyranny of numbers” — there is not likely to be any — and the president is forced to contend with, say, a hostile Parliament, Independent Members can effectively sabotage his legislative agenda. This is a situation that we have not yet experienced, but then the independent candidate was virtually unheard of until this year, and the role he or she may play in the new dispensation is still unclear. INDEPENDENTSSo the question to ask is this; what if a sizeable number of independents decide to play hard to get when crucial legislation is at stake? The only way out, in my view, is for the winner to woo to his side as many of them as possible, and do it early. This may be easy for a ruling party because it can dangle a few carrots — say accelerated development in a constituency or county — which will be impossible for the Opposition. In short, even if we are lucky to get a clear-cut winner in the first round, legislative turmoil may still haunt us long after the inevitable din about “stolen elections” is over. For some time to come, the Independent Member may be king. The writer is a consultant editor. andrewngwiri@gmail.com  