Standing on the edge of the mangrove forest with panoramic views of the creek is a small haven that attracts tourists from all walks of life to experience fresh marine delicacy prepared and served within inches from the ocean. Situated at Mida Creek, not far from Dabaso village, the restaurant is a discreet, community-run wooden construction. The Boardwalk and Crab Shack was built by Mida Creek Conservation Community to promote eco-activities, protect the mangrove forests and provide education for the underprivileged Mida Creek fishing communities.   GOOD BIRD-WATCHING SPOT Access to the restaurant is via a 200-metre boardwalk which gives guests a unique opportunity to absorb the beauty and magical atmosphere of the mangrove forest and creek channels. The restaurant looks out to stunning views of Kirepwe Island and also provides a good spot for bird watching. Dickson Musinga, one of the Members Dabbaso Creek conservation youth group, says the Crab Shack is an ideal place to visit while in Watamu adding that tourist numbers have been on the increase with every season forcing them to expand and open up new bandas to cater for more visitors. The facility can accommodate 120 clients at a go.   The Shack provides lunch and dinner from a local special menu that includes delicious fresh fish, prawns and crab dinner cooked by trained chefs. Also offered at the creek is a selection of snacks, including the Shack's signature crab samosas which Musinga says is the most common delicacy enjoyed by tourists that visit Watamu and Malindi. The crabs are sustainably farmed as part of another Dabbaso creek conservation youth group initiative and the fish are caught by local Creek fishermen. Eating out here really does support the local community and all profits go towards DCCYG conservation and education activities. Crab preparation is a simple process where a live crab that has been collected from a fisherman and stored in the cages is immersed in boiling water for about 15 minutes until it changes its color to orange then scales are peeled off gently with the remaining flesh fried, ready to make samosas. Guests can also pay a small fee for a guided tour of the boardwalk without having a meal.   According to Musinga, one of the most spectacular occasions in a day is watching the sun set that gives the best views beneath the Ocean which most tourists come and experience. Conservation is their major aim hence they organise mangrove plantings and beach clean-ups and have initiated several income generating activities including beekeeping, selling mangrove tree seedlings, crab farming and other aquaculture, poultry rearing, selling handicrafts as well as doing an eco-tourism program. Musinga, however, says the proceeds collected here, part of the money goes to conservation activities while the remaining goes to the community towards supporting education and the needy within the community. Their business operates in seasons and Musinga tells us that during the low season they collect at least 20,000 in a day but during the high season, profits go up to between 70,000 and 80,000 based on the number of tourists touring the crab shark. The crab shark has also provided employment opportunities for the youths 20 of them operate on a permanent basis in managing the restaurant while about 50 serve as tour guides and fishermen who also benefit from the facility.  Do you have feedback on this story? E-mail: lifeandstyle@ke.nationmedia.com    