Sony's sci-fi production "The Dark Tower" led ticket sales in North American theatres this weekend, but its three-day take of a modest $19.2 million fell on a notably sluggish August weekend. Co-produced by independent studio MRC, the movie based on the best-selling novels by horror and fantasy master Stephen King had the lowest chart-topping weekend take of the year, the Hollywood Reporter noted. The film stars Tom Taylor as a boy who finds himself in another dimension where a gunslinger (Idris Elba) helps him try to save the world from enemies including a Man in Black (Matthew McConaughey). The film garners a paltry 18 percent approval rating on the Rotten Tomatoes reviews site. Second in the box office race was war movie Dunkirk, slipping from the No. 1 spot it occupied at its opening a week earlier. The Warner Bros. film had a three-day take of $17.1 million, according to industry website Exhibitor Relations. Starring One Direction singer Harry Styles in the retelling of the heroic 1940 evacuation of hundreds of thousands of Allied troops from a beach in northern France, Dunkirk has been hailed by many critics as a masterpiece. In third spot was Sony's The Emoji Movie, a computer-animated comedy based on — yes — those expressive little symbols on smart phones. With an all-star voice cast including James Corden, Anna Faris, Maya Rudolph, Christina Aguilera and Sofia Vergara, the movie netted $12 million — not so bad for a film that scores a dismal 7 percent on Rotten Tomatoes. Fourth place went to Girls Trip from Universal, at $11.4 million. The raunchy comedy, about the misadventures of a group of lifelong friends who travel to New Orleans for a music festival, stars Queen Latifah and Jada Pinkett Smith.In fifth was Aviron Pictures' thriller Kidnap, at $10 million. Halle Berry plays a mother who will do anything to get her kidnapped son back. Rounding out the top 10 were: Spider-Man: Homecoming ($8.8 million)Atomic Blonde ($8.2 million)Detroit ($7.1 million)War for the Planet of the Apes ($6.2 million)Despicable Me 3 ($5.4 million)  