We must respect the way coach Robert Matano has gone about his work at the Den. The no-nonsense tactician, who is optimist by nature, has brought new ideas, instilled discipline and the sort of positive spirit.Players with discipline issues have had it rough since the arrival of The Lion.Allan Kateregga who had a scuffle with the coach at the touchline, is still serving a suspension.Ingwe look a rejuvenated side with much greater quota of top class performers who are eager to make a Leopard mark. The current line-up is far stronger than before this season and packs so much potential unlike our noisy neighbours who have players way past their prime. Ingwe may not finish among the top three in the league this season - next year will be another matter - but Matano will have worked on plan for some form of glory. And that is presented by the GOtv Shield where cruising Leopards are already through to the last four. Matano will want to win this one.To do that, Ingwe just need to fight hard and beat their younger brothers, Vihiga United and the winner between Kariobangi Sharks and Sony Sugar in the final to earn the ticket to play in next year s Caf Confederation Cup.With due respect to the other three teams in contention I do not see any of them stopping Leopards.Leopards have been the form team in this annual knock-out tournament and it is no surprise that many consider them the best team of this year s campaign. By representing Kenya in the Confederation Cup, our players will get exposure, gain international experience and present Harambee Stars selectors with a complete package.Already, Ingwe have six players in the national team- Robinson Kamura, Victor Majid, Dennis Sikhayi, Marcellus Ingosi, Gabriel Andika and Vincent Oburu. The future is certainly AFC Leopards.Unlike in the past, all players are currently attending training according to the schedule and one can sense a change in the team. There is noticeable camaraderie with everyone pulling together.There is a lot of competition for places and it has been really good to see everyone fighting for a common goal.Matano s achievements with different teams is helping to dispel the myth about Kenyans' limited coaching abilities.Since his arrival, Matano has changed the mentality and instilled discipline in the team. The team look more motivated, but they only need to be confident and consistent.He has also brought with him the discipline and values of professionalism he learnt during his playing days under the late Robert Kiberu. There is so much potential, but they had a problem with coaching and teaching, which was not really been up to scratch.Matano has tried to work hard on the tactics and it s been going really well.The players are now living like a real happy family.Given little chance, we beat reigning champions Tusker 1-0 on Thursday and settled for a 1-1 draw with our pesky neighbours and bitter rivals Gor Mahia on Sunday.The results will speak for us. email print email print There is a sinking feeling one gets when things are just about to go crazy.