IN LONDON Finally, things are beginning to take shape here with the eagerly awaited IAAF World Championships underway this Friday at the Olympic Stadium in Stratford. An iconic stadium it is, venue of the 2012 Olympic Games where Kenya’s David Rudisha shattered the world 800 metres record, running one minute 40.91 seconds to become the first human being to dip under 1:41. It’s a pity “King David” has been ruled out of these championships with injury as it would have been nostalgic reminiscing that memorable run which was voted the “Best moment of the 2012 Olympics.” Well, there hasn’t been too much noise about these championships here and even some Kenyans living and working here were rather surprised when I called them up yesterday to say I’m in town for the world’s biggest track and field festival. Not even the fact that Jamaica’s sprints legend Usain Bolt, running his final track races here before calling time to an amazing career, or indeed home boy Mo Farah looking to end a stellar track distance career on a high here before focusing on the road, seems to have excited the locals. On the approximately one-hour drive from Heathrow Airport to Stratford one would struggle to see a championship billboard or have a feeling that Bolt is in town. Nonetheless, the preparations have been fine with journalists accommodated at the University of East London, on the same campus as summer school students, a fine blend that should allow for knowledge and skills transfer over the next fortnight. University accommodation is slowly becoming a hit as the International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF), under the presidency of Briton Sebastian Coe, continues to scale down and curb wastage that was the hallmark of the previous tainted regime led by Senegal’s beleaguered Lamine Diack who remains in the cross-hairs of prosecutors in Paris for historical injustices to the sport and financial transparency. Under former Olympic champion Seb, athletics has continued to transform and attract fresh interest as was signalled by the packed stadium sessions at Kasarani during last month’s IAAF World Under-18 Championships in Nairobi. With Bolt, who has almost single-handedly injected excitement into track and field, hanging up his spikes this month, the sport of athletics will most certainly be the more poorer and will be looking for new stars to help it fight against other major sports.With Rudisha out injured, South Africa’s one-lap sensation Wayde van Niekerk could step up to the plate here and is being strongly tipped for the 200m and 400m double in the absence of Bolt in the former as the Jamaican is running only in the 100m and the 4x100m relay. The Nation Media Group will most certainly keep you updated throughout these championships online, on print and on NTV, along with our social media platforms. Talented lead athletics writer Ayumba Ayodi along with the fast-rising Bernard Rotich will capture the sizzling action as I tag along to ensure NMG continues to deliver the world-class athletics coverage that we are respected for. Let the championships begin!   Nineteen Russian athletes were in London to compete at the worlds as neutrals.