Since independence, Kenya has lost to murderers some extraordinarily capable brains. Whether the assassin is a hireling, the assumption remains that elective governance is what can secure for us a united and increasingly wealthy country. Yet Kenya has sacrificed an extraordinary number of gifted minds. Certain narrow ethnic minds are the culprits. It forces the official society to pretend that it is trying to bring the culprits to book, even when the officials are trying merely to cover up. The probability is that the present killers were well-paid hirelings of certain ethnic interests. POLITICAL CLASS Cash hunger has so crazed Kenya’s political class that members have lost all humanity. A Kenyan will kill even the grandmother to enable him to dip a finger into the old woman’s only savings. We are thus a nation deeply crazed by personal greed for the wealth of other individuals. Consider the public wealth and energy that our poor country must expend merely on ensuring the interests of the individuals whose property has been stolen by the very agents on whom Kenyans depend for their safety. The reason a staggering number of big crimes has gone unresolved is that those investigating were never too keen on following the matter to the logical end. Yet mass indigence is the most important reason the Third World continents are said to be “under-developed” or (the horribly misleading vocabulary of all the Western world’s news agencies) “developing countries”. BRIBERY It would be plausible if the bribery that the official society allegedly pockets from well connected criminals were, in turn, reinvested in society. But, being composed of chrysalises, Africa’s ruling classes have never known that investment, not unnecessary consumption, is the secret of a bloc’s economic success. Our ruling classes have never even heard of the verb “to save”. Big-time consumption – lavish dinners and cocktail parties that go on “till the second cock” – are the only “investments” known to members of the Third World’s national elites. Only their palatial sub-urban houses, their sinuous Mercedes Benzes and other often ill-gotten consumer wealth appear to attract individuals into central political positions that the beneficiaries claim to be the public service. The stolen wealth that Africa’s national elites have never participated in producing is what convinces those elites that “development” is to be defined only by the amount of consumer property that a very small class has stolen from the real producers. SOCIAL CELESTE That some individuals now live in the social celeste is what the leaders of an African country usually parade as the country’s “development record” – even as more and more of its human beings sink below the poverty line. Planning officials daily toss up attractive figures to impress the official Western “aid givers” that our countries are soaring like meteors. The result is that, as thousands of ordinary Third Worlders perish from want, the tummies of their rulers swell more and more. Studies have long ago convinced the official Western aid “givers” that the peanuts called “aid” with which they grease the palms of Africa’s ruling elites into selling our peoples’ products of labour almost free of charge is immediately appropriated in Africa’s  capital cities. BRETTON WOODS The “aid” never really reaches the human beings who most need it. As an institution, “development aid” sprang up at America’s Bretton Woods, not as an expression of human compassion, but as a means by which to rob those who already had not. Through Bretton Woods, America’s business class could bribe the leaders of the newly independent Third World countries away from Soviet influence into Western hands. The so-called private investors still do it because it is through it that can they successfully bribe the Third World’s political classes into opening up their countries for wider exploitation by Western and Eastern  “investors”. sundaynation@ke.nationmedia.com  