Mix Master Lenny is, in his words, a ‘purveyor of good vibes, a son, friend, brother, father, significant other, a collaborator, a creator and a curator’. You know him as the only other Kenyan DJ to sign with Temple Management, East Africa, who have also signed entertainment heavyweights such as Blinky Bill and DJ Adrian. Mix Master Lenny has shared the stage with some big names in the music scene, including Nas, Rick Ross, Damian Marley, Sizzla, Collie Buddz, Morgan Heritage, Nameless, and Jose Chameleone. Established in 2016, The Temple Management Company has fast risen to become a global full-service talent and events management agency. Its headquarters are based in Lagos, Nigeria. 1. What does this signing mean for you? The signing means that I’m making progress in my industry. It is both exciting and humbling to think that such an outfit would want to partner with me. Obviously, it potentially opens me up to more markets and opportunities than I have had, so hopefully bigger and better things for the Mix Master Lenny brand. 2. How much work did you put in to get where you are? What is that one common mistake DJs just starting out make before they make it? I feel as though I have worked hard and consistently at my craft, as do most people in their line of work. The difference, which also answers the ‘common mistake’ or things to avoid for DJs starting their craft or currently in the field is that I have almost developed my own approach and style to what I do. I would say I learned from my experience Stateside and back home in Nairobi to not be boxed in by ‘how things are done’ or rules, rather, offer my own take on music and the party experience. So, my advice to anyone starting out is to be patient as success doesn’t come overnight; to be creative, not to conform and work to develop their own unique style and image as this is what sets them apart, especially since there’s a lot of interest in this industry currently. 3. How old were you when you got into the game? Was this what you aspired to do? I started playing professionally late 2010, but I had been messing around with the art of deejaying for a few years before that on a more hobby-ish level. Then, I was studying in the US, so no, this is not what I envisioned as being my career, even though I was interested in music from an early age; in my childhood, I was an actor and singer. In high school, I was the school DJ and was even appointed entertainment captain. Every weekend I would pick the boom box radio up from one of the teachers and play music from tapes, then at night I would play movies for my schoolmates. I guess it is not farfetched that I’m doing this. 4. Do you think what you are doing now will influence the career choices of the next generation, say your daughter for instance? Would you support her if she wanted to be a DJ? Yes, because I feel as though I’m helping redefine what being a DJ/Producer is about. I not only play music, I help curate a whole experience within the arts that creates opportunities for others to showcase their talents. In this way, I am a social entrepreneurship of sorts. The potential of what someone can do in this field today is not confined to earlier boundaries. I am currently helping produce a TV show, host and DJ my own parties and help curate content for many other platforms. I would most definitely support and encourage her if she were interested. 5. If you could get the chance to meet, face-to-face, two musicians, who would they be and why? Two musicians I would love to meet, work with and whose presence I would love to be in would be Michael Jackson and Beres Hammond. MJ is one of my idols, growing up in the late 80s and 90s, while Beres is my favourite reggae artist, so it would be an absolute pleasure.  