World 1,500m silver medallist Elijah Manangoi led World 1,500m champion Asbel Kiprop and Timothy Cheruiyot in qualifying for men s 1,500m final at the World Championships in London on Friday.Manangoi, who led through the bell before hitting the 1,200m mark in 3:00.46, slowed down the race to enable Kiprop pull through to the front.Once again Manangoi, who is looking forward to make amends from 2015 Beijing where he won silver, won the first semi-final in 3:40.10 followed by Kiprop in 3:40.14, a replica of the first round.Kiprop, who hopes to put behind his poor show at Rio Olympic Games, is out to claim a fourth consecutive World title after his exploits in 2011 Daegu, 2013 Moscow and 2015 Beijing.Cheruiyot, who led throughout the second semi-final, eased off with 20 metres to go to finish second in 3:38.24 as another Kenyan World junior 1,500m record holder Ronald Kwemoi, who went into the race with an injury, failed to qualify.Jakub Holu a from Czech Republic won the fastest semi-final in 3:38.05 as five other athletes qualified from the race.The qualification by the three Kenyans made the dream of the first ever podium sweep in the event real by the Kenyans.The final is due on the last day of the championships on Sunday. It will be a highly tactical and tough final since everyone will be going for victory, said Manangoi, who called for a fast-paced final if they are to win the race. I am happy to qualify for the final since I consider the semi-finals the toughest stage. Kiprop said he has improved greatly after a slow start to the season and he is looking forward to retain his title. I want to finish on the podium and perhaps retain my title. All I want is a Kenyan winning, said Kiprop, adding running from the back of the pack has always been his style. Maybe I might change that in the final. Cheruiyot said he will once again tear the field from the front. We held a god training back home and for sure something nice is in the offing, said Cheruiyot. email print email print I like team work and I hope we all make it to the final. 