Everything is going well over dinner at Jo’s house so far; the conversation is great between the four of us, and it looks like Chris and Johann really have a rapport going on. I relax into it and even begin to enjoy myself. Just before Jo brings out a dessert dish, and as we are sipping our drinks between courses, the subject turns to the possibility of my departure from the company. “So when is the interview?” Jo asks. I turn to look at Chris; he’s not wearing any expression on his face. I figure it’s safe to launch into it. “Mid next month,” I say. “I’m collecting all the information they need to complete my application and then it’s fingers crossed after that!” “How exciting,” Johann pitches in. “And in case they accept you, do you think you will have trouble fitting into a new market?” Chris jumps in before I have a chance to reply. “There’s no ‘in case’ about it; Liz is a shoo-in. I’d be hard-pressed to find any candidates more qualified than her. And the position is not about fitting into the Ghanaian market – it’s a worldwide position so her work would put her in charge of all our marketing, and that’s stuff that she is already familiar with having worked with us for so many years.” Curiously, although the answer is directed at Johann, Chris stares intensely at me all through. I blush from the strength of his gaze, and feel completely flattered at his glowing words. “Well,” I smile, “thank you for that Chris. I mean, I’m nervous for sure. One is never certain about these things. But I am also looking forward to being accepted to the position.” I take a huge swig of my drink just as Jo stands up to clear the plates and walks off into the kitchen. “I’ll come help you bring out the dessert, darling!” Johann calls after her as he stands up to go help, leaving me and Chris alone at the dining table. There’s an awkward silence for a few minutes before I pitch in: “You know for a moment there I thought you weren’t going to give me the recommendation.” “Why wouldn’t I?” Chris frowns. I shrug. “I don’t know… you seemed miffed when I brought it up.” He shakes his head as if he is processing his thoughts. “Look, you deserve this. You have worked hard for years and you deserve to rise to the top. That doesn’t mean I am not sad to see you go. You have been very good to and for us.” “It’s not sealed yet, we don’t know if I am going!” I giggle in playful protest. Chris does not crack a smile. Instead he looks at me intensely once more. “You will get it,” he says. “I have no doubt.” I stare into his eyes and melt… and suddenly a plate, fork and spoon are placed in front of me, startling me out of my reverie.  