The family of the electoral agency’s ICT manager Chris Msando has expressed disappointment with the way the government is “taking its time” in investigating his murder. His brother Peter Msando on Friday said the government should accept assistance from foreign agencies to enable them unravel the circumstances surrounding the death within the shortest time so that the family can move on. READ: US vote monitor 'saddened by Msando's death' READ: Msando, Ngumbu were both strangled - VIDEO ASSISTANCEHe added that since his brother was working for a public institution, the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission, the government should be proactive in helping the family now that he is dead, and update them on the investigations so far. “As a family, we are not happy with the pace at which investigations are being conducted. The government should have accepted help from the foreign investigators,” the brother said. JUSTICEHe said the death of his younger brother had dealt them a major blow, adding that the lives of his young family would change forever because the ICT manager was hardworking and adequately provided for it. Mr Msando’s mother, Mary Aloo, said her son’s killers should have taken him to court if he had offended them instead of killing him. The woman said she depended on her son for her needs and medical expenses. “I used to do business to take my child to school. He got a job and I put all my hopes on him. I am old and he is the one who used to help me,” Ms Aloo said. LEE FUNERALThey were speaking at Lee Funeral Home in Nairobi during a public viewing of the body. The family had allowed the public viewing between 9am and noon. The family was also at the funeral home to view the body after an autopsy was conducted on Wednesday. MURDER The electoral agency’s ICT manager was killed alongside a 21-year-old woman, Ms Carol Ngumbu. Their bodies were found last Saturday a few metres from each other at Muguga Forest in Kikuyu. A post-mortem has revealed that they were strangled, possibly using a rope.  