IN LONDON Boston Marathon champion Geoffrey Kirui gave Kenya its first gold medal at the 2017 IAAF World Championships after putting up a brilliant performance to clinch the marathon title on Sunday. Kirui clocked 2:08.27 to edge out Ethiopia's pre-race favourite Tamirat Tola by 1min 22sec for the title, while Tanzania's Alphonse Simbu claimed bronze. Great Britain's Callum Hawkins, pushed by the home crowed, managed a fourth-place finish.       Kirui ran a tactical race and was shoulder-to-shoulder with Tola at the 21km mark with compatriots London Marathon champion Daniel Wanjiru and 2016 Mumbai Marathon titlist Gideon Kipketer struggling to keep up. “I knew the Ethiopian was going to get worn out in the 38km mark and I decided to slow down. It worked out for me and when I saw him slowing down, I knew that was the perfect time to increase my pace,” said Kirui. At one point, Tola sprung to the front but Kirui fought his way back to the front with the Dubai Marathon champion struggling.       Kirui led the race in a split of 1:05:28 at the half mark, 1:16:43 at 25km mark and 1:46:11 at 35km mark. Kirui said he had done enough preparations and his goal was to win gold for Kenya which eluded the country in 2015 games in Beijing, China. “We did enough training as we were preparing for the race and my goal was to win a gold for the country. In 2015, we lost to the Eritreans but I’m happy we have reclaimed it back,” said Kirui. Kirui further said he hopes Kenyan will remain united and peaceful during the General Election set for Tuesday. “I have done my part by winning gold and it’s my prayer that Kenyan’s will vote wisely and peacefully on Tuesday. Sports is what brings us together and we are in solidarity here in London with all the Kenyans,” said the gold medallist. The Boston Marathon champion, who trains in Keringet, Nakuru County, is under the Global Sports Communication with Olympic champion Eliud Kipchoge and world silver medallist in 10,000m Joshua Cheptegei. London Marathon champion Daniel Wanjiru said that he was in great form but his body could not react and he told his colleagues to push on in the race.\ “My body could not react after 15km and I told my compatriots to go ahead and increase the pace,” said Wanjiru. Gideon Kipketer came in fifth place after clocking 2:10:56 while Wanjiru was eighth in 2:12:16. Kenya has won four gold medals in the men’s marathon at the World Championships. Abel Kirui holds the championships record of 2:06:54 which he clocked during the Berlin games in 2009.  