I have been writing a newspaper column for nearly 20 years. And for the first time, I don’t know what to say because I don’t know what to do. Should I reassure my readers, some who happen to be my children, that everything is going to be okay? ATTITUDE I know that everything is not going to be OK. I have been planning for weeks in anticipation that everything is not going to be OK. I am a curious man and by training and long practice, I have become observant, too. Kenyans never cease to surprise and inspire me with their never-die attitude, the intrepid capacity to try the new and a rather fortunate penchant for faking it, when they don’t have it. HOPEWe are hope addicts. You see a man who sells sweets in the streets giving a passing big car a proprietorial once-over. In his head, he has already bought it. The country is soaked in collective determination to improve ourselves, to educate our brothers and sisters, to get jobs for someone, to visit someone in hospital, to go and see your mum, to buy a truck, to plant a garden: We are a restless race and most of the time we just want a better — meaning wealthier — life for our families. CORRUPTUnfortunately, that also makes us such incorrigible thieves. In the spirit of speaking the truth, since we are all facing an uncertain future, we will rob our chama, our cooperative society, our community, and our country. We will take other people’s property without even a hint of compunction. That is how we became one of the most corrupt nations on earth. LAWHowever, I have come to learn with some degree of surprise that even the most outrageous Kenyan is afraid of the law. Very few will steal if there is a risk of being jailed or if they are convinced that they can’t buy their way out. But my greatest disappointment with my country is its inability to regard its politics with a clear eye and discern the simple truth therein. POLITICS We believe, and this springs from our go-getter, optimistic, pyramid scheme-believing, sports-betting-addicted character, that anything can be done overnight. We just need to fake it. And this has robbed us of the capacity to analyse our situation rationally and see it for what it really is. We are a developing country with few natural resources. FLAW It is going to take generations of discipline, honest hard work, good planning, careful management of resources, unity of purpose, peace and stability for us to build a clean, prosperous country. Our willingness to believe that someone, anyone, can change the country in a mere five years is rooted in our unflinching trust in pyramid schemes and gambling rings: It is just foolish optimism, a flaw in our national character. If we accepted the reality — that it will take hard work, discipline and time to become prosperous — then in one afternoon we would be able to put out of business all these snake oil salesmen in politics and religion. ELECTIONBut because we believe in miracles, we have given our souls to people who have not earned our trust in church and in politics. The two have become one. We sell our cars to buy cars for our pastors, just like we sell our cars to finance the election campaigns of our ethnic deities. Both our pastors and our ethnic deities are billionaires in their own right. The stakes in this year’s election are NOT high, not for the country and its people. VESTED INTEREST It’s just an election, we have had many before, and we are going to have many more if we don’t burn our country. The stakes in this election are high for the individuals who are either looking to get into power or who have deeply, but personally, invested in one or the other team keen on gaining power. For the average Kenyan, it will not matter much how it goes. HARD WORK You will still wake up and have to go to your coffee farm, or your shop or your job. The miracle will not come from some ethnic magician; it will come from the work of our good hands. So, I will not reassure you. I will not frighten you. I will tell you the truth: We do have problems in our country. But we can sort them out. Your neighbour — his tribe or political leaning — is not your enemy. NEIGHBOUR If your house catches fire, who will come and help you get your things out? Your neighbour, or your ethnic god? If your wife goes into labour in the middle of the night, who will go to hospital with you? It hurts me to see that the whole world expects us to be so stupid as to kill one another over an election. ANGER It hurts me even more to know in my heart of hearts, that they are right. Some of us are primed to vent our anger on our neighbours, to seek justice for unproven wrongs, to seek revenge against those who haven’t hurt them. We are a people separated from its future by a wide, deep electoral gulf. Only our willingness to build a bridge, together, will see us across. Safe election everyone! mmutuma@ke.nationmedia.com  