President Uhuru Kenyatta was Friday night magnanimous with his win by extending an olive branch to his arch-rival Raila Odinga, saying Kenya needs healing and cooperation after the high-stakes elections. "To our brothers and our worthy competitors, I say to you: we are not enemies, we are citizens of one republic. "And like in any competition, there shall always be winners and losers, but we will remain members of one nation," President Kenyatta said at Bomas of Kenya moments after he was handed his certificate. RAILA ODINGA With 8,203,290 votes (54.27 per cent) and having attained at least 25 per cent of the votes in 35 counties, President Kenyatta was declared validly elected to serve for another five-year-term. Mr Chebukati made the formal declaration at 10.18pm after a day of tension, grandstanding and an evening of waiting in the cold auditorium by the politicians, observers, envoys, journalists, commission staff and security agents. With Ms Roselyn Akombe the master of ceremonies, and peppering the announcement with jokes and witty remarks, Mr Chebukati took the audience through the whole process of reading out what each of the eight candidates scored in all the 47 counties, complete with their percentages, as required in law. He also had the agents present sign against the Form 34C. TURNOUTPresident Kenyatta later told journalists that his first assignment would be uniting Kenyans after a long campaign. Mr Chebukati said that 15,073,662 people voted and reported a turnout of 78.91 per cent. There were 40,883 polling stations. PROTEST Mr Odinga, whose National Super Alliance refused to sign the results, polled 6,762, 224 (44.74) and had attained at least 25 per cent of the vote in at least 29 counties. To be declared President, one must attain the constitutional threshold of at least 50 per cent of the total votes cast, and at least 25 per cent of the vote in at least 24 counties. VISIONPresident Kenyatta specifically named Mr Odinga in his speech, asking for his cooperation in the furtherance of a common vision for Kenya. "To my brother Mr Odinga, I reach out to you, I reach out to all your supporters, and all those who were elected on Opposition benches, and say that we shall work together, partner and grow this country together," the Head of State said. "I extend a hand of friendship, cooperation, and a promise to partner to work together to succeed. And Kenyans want us to succeed." OBSERVERSHe encouraged those who lost in the polls not to despair. "I want to say congratulations to those who have won, to those who have lost: You live to fight another day," he said He thanked the 5,000-member strong foreign observer teams, which he said had ensured a free, fair and credible election. "Elections come and go. Kenya is here to stay. Let us always remember that we are brothers and sisters. Let us reach out to one another. Let us share together," President Kenyatta said. READ: Observer missions say poll credible VIOLENCEHe appealed to Kenyans to love one another, warning against violence. "There is no need for violence, because your neighbour is your neighbour. "Wherever you may be, please reach out to your neighbour, shake their hands and say to them: This election is over, and regardless of whom you voted for, you are still my neighbour, my brother, sister." IEBCHe was accompanied by his Deputy William Ruto, First Lady Margaret Kenyatta, and Mr Ruto’s wife Rachel. He commended the electoral agency for doing a good job. "It has been a long wait, but we were determined that we will wait for the final result, as indeed has now been declared. "Thank you very much IEBC. We wish to thank you for a job well done," he told Mr Wafula Chebukati, the chairman. VOTERSHe promised to continue with what he said will be equitable distribution of development in the country. "We promise to roll out equitable development in the whole country, because you cannot be punished for making a political choice. We will continue with the work and will be even more dedicated," he said. READ: Inside Uhuru and Raila's campaign machines - VIDEO The Head of State thanked his supporters and the people behind what was a behemoth of a campaign that the ruling party rolled out, covering 540 stops in 46 counties in the campaign period between May 28 and August 5.   Mr Chebukati is expected to announce the final results today.