Supporters of Jubilee on Friday evening flooded streets in various towns to celebrate after President Uhuru Kenyatta was declared winner of the August 8 poll. Singing and dancing, the celebrations kicked off shortly before Mr Kenyatta headed to Bomas, after it became evident to the supporters that IEBC was preparing to announce the final presidential results. Provisional results on IEBC website were also placing the president in the lead.   In Gatundu South Constituency, Mr Kenyatta’s rural home, residents gathered at social places, homes and inside electronic shops to follow events happening at Bomas of Kenya where the winner was announced. At the pubs and hotels, business was brisk as customers flocked in to follow the events. In Lamu, where Mr Fahim Twaha of Jubilee was elected governor, supporters hit the streets from as early as 5pm. In Hola town, Tana River County, Jubilee supporters defied the curfew orders to pour into the streets to celebrate.   A carnival mood engulfed Nakuru town and its environs, a stronghold of Mr Kenyatta, immediately after he was declared the winner. Thousands of locals, led by their leaders, poured into the streets singing and dancing in jubilation. The town’s major streets, including Kenyatta Avenue, Gusii Road, Baringo Road and the entire Central Business District were turned into celebration venues. Transport along the Nairobi-Nakuru-Eldoret highway was also paralysed for over 30 minutes as huge crowds waving twigs, Jubilee Partry banners and blowing vuvuzelas celebrated at Free Area, Kunste and other areas.   In Naivasha, Molo and Gilgil, it was also song and dance as residents expressed their emotions. Motorists were forced to join the celebrating crowd and there were no acts of lawlessness reported. The residents braved cold to celebrate the win they described as “God given”. Street dancers and homeless families also joined in the celebrations, taking the chance to freely interact with their leaders in the much awaited celebrations. Residents interviewed by the Nation described the win as a victory for the whole country.   “This is a win for all Kenyans who have spoken in one voice and elected President Kenyatta. Let us now move on as one,” said Mr Charles Kimani, a Nakuru resident. However, in Molo, the celebrations were dampened by the death of a man police said was run over by a lorry. The officers collected the body and took it to a local mortuary. President Kenyatta supporters always broke into song and dance in parts of  Nyandarua and Samburu counties. Similar celebrations were witnessed in Ol Kalou town and Naivasha. In Mt Kenya region, business came to a standstill in different towns as residents celebrated the win.   They broke into songs of praise, cheers and jubilations stating that God had answered their prayers after defeat of the four- time presidential candidate Raila Odinga. Some were armed with vuvuzelas and placards christened Uhuruto tena while others insisted that the 54 per cent figure was symbolic. Others were celebrating while lifting loaves of bread shouting hakuna nusu mkate (no half bread), in reference to power sharing. “Respect number 54. It is God’s grace. Kenya is 54 years since independence, Uhuru got 54 percent, Waiguru 54, Sonko 54, Waititu 54, Ngilu 54 and Mutua 54 percent,” read one of the placards in Nyeri town.   Hundreds of taxi and boda boda operators together people from different walks of life jammed towns and trading centres while hooting. Restaurants, pubs and hotels were packed to capacity by local residents for more than five hours as they patiently waited for the key announcement by IEBC Chairman Wafula Chebukati.. Local leaders welcomed the president’s victory while commending the IEBC, saying it delivered a credible poll. John Mwaniki, deputy governor-elect in Laikipia County, said the margin is undisputable since the president’s party had also won majority of the elective seats in country.   “His re-election is a continuation of his transformative agenda in the country,” said Mr Mwaniki. “He will now deliver tremendous economic growth and unify the country as he did together with his deputy since 2013.” He however asked the president to prioritise fight against graft, negative ethnicity and ensure he unifies the nation. In Narok County, all was calm with no jubilation. Residents behaved as if nothing had  happened.  Reports by Mary Wambui, Kalume Kazungu, Peter Mburu, Magdalene Wanja, Macharia Mwangi, Eric Matara, Francis Mureithi, Reitz Mureithi, Steve Njuguna, Waikwa Maina and Godfrey Oundoh.   He encouraged those who lost in the polls not to despair.