The last couple of days have seen a lot of talk about the possibility of violence and prospects for peace in the August 8 elections. It has become clear, from most of the views being expressed, particularly in social media, that peace is fast becoming a dirty word amongst some Kenyans. They see peace messages as unwarranted connivance with the incumbent to maintain the status quo, and a perpetuation of the hegemony of one or two ethnic groups. Highly suspicious of government, they see all peace messages, whether coming from politicians, church leaders, civil society groups, security agencies or the media, as the very codification of hypocrisy. Instead, they would like to see effort being expended on correcting historical injustices rather than preaching peace. PEACE MESSAGES As a counter-measure to the galloping peace messages, there has been very spirited activism in social media.  The dominant view, which they favour, is that “Kenya will burn” if the elections are not free and fair. The theory of “just war” – the idea that there are times when killing is morally necessary – has also been invoked. Any talk of peace is viewed as the stealthy marketing of the status quo that they detest. Politicians caught on camera advocating violence, or calling for the return of “invading” communities in order to retain the ethnic purity of some regions have not helped matters. They are unhappy with the work of the government, religious organizations and the many civil society organizations involved in cross-media messaging about peace at this time. “Why would anyone talk about peace yet there is no war?” some ask, seeing war as the necessary prerequisite for peace. These arguments are being advanced despite serious warnings by election observers, including those from the European Union, and the police, that violence will most likely erupt after the elections. Violent incidents have already been reported in Bungoma, Migori, Mathare, Meru, Lamu, Murang’a and Baringo. SLOW-PUNCTURE The high tourism season, which starts in June, has been stillborn, putting a damper on job creation. Diplomats and wealthy Kenyans are reported to be making contingency plans for a quick escape in case violence erupts, while middle class Kenyans are stocking up for just such an eventuality. Fears of violence have given the economy a debilitating slow-puncture.  But what you can’t do is talk about peace, as this offends some activists and politicians. Such people argue that fear of violence and a repeat of the 2008 post-election violence contributed to the electoral malpractices they argue characterised the 2013 General Election, which they insist was stolen despite a ruling by the Supreme Court to the contrary.  In their assessment, peace messaging produces a chilling effect in watchdog institutions such as the media and civil society, and amounts to surreptitious advocacy for the status quo. What this argument fails to acknowledge, however, is that the status quo, broadly defined, has generally been peaceful. But it is becoming clear that opposition to peace messaging is not an innocuous, idle banter.  In fact, some people would not hesitate to support violence after the election if they “feel” that it was not free and fair. Whether the country degenerates into violence or not will be wholly dependent on the collective whim of a section of its population. Once the violence starts, some will likely claim that it was simultaneous, in the hope that everyone will forget how hard they worked to disown peace, discourage or out rightly ban peace messages, predict violence, justify violence and extoll its benefits. Those opposed to peace advocacy tend to deliver their admonitions, not as warnings, but as a threat and as a dire prediction: Either conduct free and fair elections or face violence. Knowing how devastating conflicts can be, I am asking my fellow Kenyans to keep the genie of war in the bottle. Dr Ngugi is a lecturer at the School of Journalism and Mass Communication, University of Nairobi.mngugi@yahoo.com  