The long-awaited day is finally here. The campaigns have been gruelling, expensive and emotionally charged! Some cried, some prayed. The crowds turned up in large numbers to reassure parties and candidates of their support come today. Whether the messages sank home will be known by the end of Tuesday. CHANGEBy 5pm on Tuesday when the IEBC officials close gates and allow a few people still on the queue to vote, we will either be going in for Nasa’s ‘Tano Fresh’ or continuing with Jubilee’s agenda through ‘Tano Tena’. This election is about either status quo or change. It is a referendum on President Uhuru Kenyatta’s performance in the last four years deputised by Mr William Ruto. A vote for Mr Kenyatta on Tuesday will mean an endorsement for continuity and faith in their ability to deliver on their promises. CANAANA vote for Mr Odinga will mean the country is keen on a fresh start and majority believe in his journey to ‘Canaan’! This will confirm that Nasa offers a better agenda for the country! A vote for the other six candidates — those of the second tier — will be insignificant but could be the reason we may have a runoff should either of the top two fail to reach the mandatory magical number of 50 per cent+1 vote Tuesday. RUNOFF Should this happen, then we are in for a long wait! The Constitution is clear on how a presidential runoff should be conducted in the unlikely event that this becomes necessary. There was the big matter of the presidential debate to which some turned up and others gave a wide berth. Mr Odinga had a whole 90 minutes to himself on all TV with Kenyans. Will this count for the votes on Tuesday? translate into more votes? VOTINGSocial media has, no doubt, played a significant role in swaying voters’ perceptions and opinions during this electioneering period. On Sunday, I asked my Facebook friends to say whether they will be voting and where. The results were amazing. Nearly all my friends who responded to the post said they will be voting on Tuesday. All of them will want to vote early and will try to assist the elderly get to the polling stations. SOCIAL MEDIA This is indicative of how enthusiastic we all are for this election. In true Kenyan characteristic, we have seen serious matters turned into comedy and caricatures of both Mr Kenyatta and Mr Odinga doing rounds. Social media has shown beyond doubt that Kenyans enjoy lots of freedom. Every vote will be important on Tuesday. Every single one of them. POLLSTERS There will be landslide voter turnout on Tuesday, but there will be no landslide victory for either party if the recent opinion polls are anything to go by. To win and form the government means that there is a need for voters to go for the six-piece. Else one may win as President but end up being a lame duck in case they do not get enough MCAs, MPs, senators and governors. For instance, had Cord won the presidency in 2013, it would have been difficult for them to govern, given the then Jubilee ‘tyranny of numbers’! PARLIAMENT But Kenya being what we are, it is not hard to put together a post-election coalition government in this year’s elections. Should Nasa carry the day, I see Kanu as the most likely partner in forming the new government! Will Jubilee maintain their numbers? Luckily, the IEBC is well prepared to handle this. Of importance is the Kenya Integrated Electoral Management System (Kiems) put together by the late Chris Msando. IEBC It will be impossible for the dead to vote on Tuesday; no returning officer will go into hiding for three days and keep the country waiting. IEBC chief executive Ezra Chiloba assured the country that the presidential results should be out in no more than four days from Tuesday. If Mr Kenyatta wins tomorrow, it will be business as usual. The only task will be the swearing-in ceremony. TRANSITION But Nasa could throw a spanner in the works should they go to court if they feel that the election was not free and fair. Should Mr Odinga win tomorrow, then it will be business unusual! Hopefully there is a transition committee in place to oversee the handing over from Jubilee to Nasa. It is also possible Jubilee could go to the Supreme Court to question the results. PEACESo, all said and done, we will either have a straight win tomorrow, a draw necessitating a runoff, or a court battle to determine the winner before we have a government in place. Whichever way it goes, let your vote count as every vote cast tomorrow will count after it has been counted. Let us keep the peace as the results roll in! May the best candidates carry the day! Dr Lumala is a senior lecturer in the Department of Communication Studies, School of Communication, Information and Media Studies, Moi University. masibo@gmail.com  