Home player Edwin Mudanyi on Sunday beat junior international Agil Is-Haq of Nyali Golf and Country Club and round one leader Mike Kisia also from Vet Lab by four shots to claim this year s Kabete Open golf tittle at the par 72 Vet Lab Sports Club course.Mudanyi, who started the event with four over par 76 in the first round, fired one under par 71 during the second round in addition to Sunday s two over par 74 for a three rounds total of 221 gross. It s the second round which real made all the difference this weekend as I made 17 pars and one birdie for my one under par score. Today, I did not start well, even though I made two birdies and two bogeys in the first nine but missed a number of birdie chances at the back nine where I dropped two shots," said Mudanyi, who said the greens were not as good and many players were struggling making pars live alone birdies. The youngster Is-Haq, a member of Kenya s national team, also shot two over 74 in the closing round having fired one under par 71 in the second round for a total of 225, beating home player and pacemaker Mike Kisia on countback. Kisia, who had set the ball rolling with a level par 72 in the opening round, dropped four shots in the second and five in the closing round (77) to also wind up on 225. Railway s Samuel Njoroge finished in fourth place on 226 after a 74 each in the last two rounds. Another youngster, Kibugu Mutahi of Muthaiga tied in fifth place with Thika Sports Club s Peter Rimui on 228.Mutahi closed with 75 while Rimui fired 74. Ruiru s Ben Omondi and current leader in the Kenya Amateur Golf Championship(KAGC) series John Karichu tied on 229 to also earn some points in the series. The next event in the series will be the Railway Invitational in two weeks time. Meanwhile, the national team for this year s East Africa Challenge Cup at Dar es Salaam Gymkhana Club in Tanzania will be announced after Tuesday s General election. email print email print Kisia is currently playing off plus two handicap.