Nyeri Governor Wahome Gakuru has sent county executives and chief officers on compulsory leave as he moves to set up what he terms a “transparent and competent team”. The move comes amid sharp divisions between governors and workers’ unions over the ongoing sackings. CONTRACTS Employees attached to the governor’s office have also been served with letters notifying them of expiry of their contracts. The county executives received letters in the morning directing them to go for their annual leave. “As you are aware you have unutilised leave days, you are required to commence your leave on August 31” the letters read in part. The officers have further been urged to hand over property belonging to the county government, including vehicles. THE LIST Some of the county executives sent on leave are Charles Githinji (Health), Lucy Wanyitu (Special Programmes) and Stanley Miano (Tourism). Agriculture Executive Robert Thuo and two other chief officers have been spared. County Secretary Alice Wachira protested the action of the governor, questing the criteria he had used to send some officials home while leaving others. Ms Wachira accused the county boss of discrimination. “We were all working for the previous regime, why would he retain some and send others on leave. He is clearly operating on suspicion,” she said. REGIME The process of sending some of the minsters home, she said, was irregular and castigated other governors who have sent county officials home. “Is it a crime to work for a different regime? As public servants we are employed to serve the public not individuals,” she said. Ms Wachira, who was the Assumption of Office Committee Chair, noted the Constitution allows them to be in office until the MCAs take office and new executives vetted to replace them. According to Ms Wachira, sending chief officers home would paralyse audit by the auditor-general since they are the accounting officers. 'NOT SACKED' But Deputy Governor Mutahi Kahiga said the executives had not been sacked but sent on compulsory leave as they had many pending leave days. “No one has been sacked. We just realized that they did not take leave and need a break. The CEC left was to ensure continuity of government when others are on leave,” said Mr Kahiga. “We are a fair government and they will be treated fairly." The county officials said that  they were ready to leave office but according to the law. MEETING During his inauguration ceremony, Dr Gakuru pledged to constitute a new Cabinet with “competent and honest” executives. “We intend to run a clean transparent and inclusive government. I have never been involved in the theft and misuse of public resources I do not intend to start today,” he said. Last week, the officials held a meeting with the governor and briefed him on the status of all the departments.   Commission on Administrative Justice says firing of employees can only be done after human resources and finance audits.