Efforts to streamline the livestock value chain from farm to market are being adversely affected by politics, a veterinary association has said. The association warned that direct sale of animals to the market is exposing consumers to poisonous substances as some farmers sell sick livestock or those under medication. In a review of county governments’ four years in power, Kenya Veterinary Association chairman Samuel Kahariri said its 190 members found it impossible to implement measures that improve animal husbandry and which check spread of animal diseases. “Taita Taveta and Homa Bay county governments have employed non-professionals as directors of veterinary services while the national government has ensured the Kenya Meat Commission is led by politically appointed individuals with no background on animal health,” he said. Dr Kahariri added that the veterinary association’s campaign to vaccinate livestock in some counties has been met with resistance from devolved units that feel excluded from the inter-county campaigns run by KVA and donor partners. “We vaccinate cattle against Foot and Mouth Disease, Lumpy Skin Disease and Anthrax, with dogs receiving anti-rabies jabs. But you will find leaders in neighbouring counties rejecting the campaign, thereby reversing the gains made,” he said. Dr Kahariri said a bid by the Parliamentary Pastoralist Group to amend the law to allow employment of community-based animal health assistants was the last setback in efforts to revamp the sector. He said the national government must move fast to recover all alienated parcels of land for livestock quarantine zones as well as encourage establishment of county-based livestock auction markets. “The markets will see county governments play a central role in establishment of feedlots where animals are fattened and observed for a month for any ailment, while easing drug residues, before being sold,” he said. Dr Kahariri said KVA and the Directorate of Veterinary Services will launch a county-based coding service to package livestock ready for the market as disease and chemical-free. He added that the law on the planned veterinary medicine directorate, now with the Cabinet, would help professionalise sale, manufacture and application of livestock drugs where only qualified people would handle animal medicine. ALSO READ: Antibiotic abuse in livestock raises drug resistance risks  