Kisii Central Ward ODM candidate Frank Mirina has allegedly been kidnapped. The candidate was heading to the county tallying centre in Kisiii town when he was abducted by unknown people a few metres from the Kisii National Polytechnic main gate. 12.30PM Rachel Kebwato, a hawker who witnessed the 12.30pm incident, said a Probox first rammed into the candidate and his boda boda rider before the abduction occurred. "I was selling my sweets and biscuits when I saw a Probox ram into the motorbike carrying the candidate,” she said. “As the bike slowed down and parked at the roadside, three men jumped out of the car and grabbed Mr Mirina, forcing him into the car.” The vehicle then sped off along the Kisii-Nyamira highway. A supporter, Mr Amos Onsase, said the candidate was going to complain about electoral malpractices at the county tallying centre. FORCES "We were dissatisfied with the electoral process in our ward and Mr Mirina was going to launch a formal complaint when he was accosted," said Mr Onsase. He told the Nation the candidate was unaccompanied at the time of the incident. He told the Nation that witnesses called him with the news of the abduction, prompting him to rush to make a report at Kisii Central Police station. Mr Onsase claimed powerful political forces were behind the youthful politician's kidnapping. "We know some powerful forces were behind this cowardly act and wish to reiterate our resolve to ensure that our leader becomes duly elected as Kisii Central Ward MCA," he said. Tallying of votes for the county assembly representative seat is going on  but Mr Mirina at the time of his disappearance was at position two. 'RIG' The candidate's supporters later staged a demonstration in the streets of Kisii Town following the kidnapping. They termed the abduction as "an attempt to rig the election in favour of some powerful individuals". County Police Commander Abdi Hassan confirmed the incident, saying police had opened investigations in a bid to net the culprits. "We are investigating the circumstances under which this incident occurred and will take legal action against all found culpable," said Mr Abdi. "It is too early for us to speculate on the identity or motive of the suspects behind the incident," he said.  