Julius Kirwa doesn t fancy politics at all, and it s extremely difficult to excite him into any political banter. The celebrated Kenyan athletics head coach would rather focus on what he knows best, which is to knock his world-beating athletes into gold medal shape.Coach Kirwa, like the rest of us on duty at the IAAF World Championships here in London, regrets the fact that he will be out of town when Kenyans go to the polls next week.He won t have the opportunity to exercise his democratic right even as he rallies his troops to keep flying the Kenyan flag high, like they have always done at every major global championship. From his enviable position on the Kenyan bench in Stratford, Kirwa on Saturday appealed to Kenyans to keep the peace and go through voting in mature fashion to help keep the country s name and image intact.An image he has helped sanitize through the gold medal performances of his illustrious athletes. You see, like in the 10,000 metres finals last (Friday) night, our athletes worked as a team. Team Kenya. It didn t matter which county Bedan Karoki, Geoffrey Kamworor of Paul Tanui come from, Kirwa told me at the Olympic Stadium after gleefully seeing his three 800 metres athletes Ferguson Cheruiyot, Emmanuel Korir and Kipyegon Bett cruise through to the next round of the two-lap race on a chilly morning.(READ: Bett, Korir, Rotich enter 800m semis in London) People should carry out peaceful elections without fighting. Let the best candidate win, and it doesn t matter who wins, but Kenya will still remain a country, because individuals come and go, but the country remains. All we need is peace. An appropriate message coming from a man on a mission to keep the Kenyan flag high, his athletes the unifying factor for a nation so much polarised by political affiliations and spurred on by empty political rhetoric. On election day next Tuesday, two significant IAAF World Championships events will be on the programme at the London Olympic Stadium the men s 800 metres and steeplechase finals.Victory for Kenyans in these special races will help hold the fragile national fabric together during the tense, vote-counting period on Tuesday night. Kenyans will embrace, irrespective of their party affiliations, and they will dance along with Ezekiel Baba Yao Kemboi as he celebrates yet another medal in his glittering career.They will consume copious amounts of alcohol, and fruit juices for that matter, as they toast to outstanding performances by Emmanuel Korir, Kipyegon Bett and Ferguson Korir in the two-lap race erstwhile dominated by injured world record holder David Rudisha. The men s steeplechase final on Tuesday throws off at 11.10pm Kenyan time and will be followed by the 800m clash at 11.35pm. Vote wisely and peacefully while celebrating our athletics stars who remain the country s best ambassadors globally. email print email print The maximum sentence for such shoplifting is six months in prison.