Britain, Germany and the European Union have congratulated President Uhuru Kenyatta on his re-election even as the opposition vowed to overturn what they called a “sham” result. “Tuesday was a historic day for Kenya, with millions of Kenyans turning out to vote in the general election. The United Kingdom warmly congratulates President Kenyatta on his re-election,” Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson said in a statement late Saturday. “We commend the people of Kenya for their commitment to democracy and salute those who worked tirelessly and courageously towards holding credible elections, often in difficult circumstances,” Mr Johnson added. European Union Vice-President Federica Mogherini has hailed President Kenyatta for his re-election, saying the people of Kenya had shown a strong commitment and engagement in the electoral process and the strengthening of democracy in the country. In a statement, Ms Mogherini urged all political forces to look to the future and work together at national and local levels for the good of the country and the people. RESPECT RESULTS “In line with the African Union, the EU expects the opposition to respect the results and use available legal mechanisms to raise their complaints,” she said. German Foreign Affairs minister Sigmar Gabriel said: “I congratulate Uhuru Kenyatta on his re-election. National and international observers consider the elections to have been transparent and credible.” Meanwhile, the government has warned that police will not tolerate any breach of peace in the country. In a statement to newsrooms on Sunday, State House Spokesman Manoah Esipisu said the violent protests witnessed in some parts of the country are unlawful and police will do their work to restore law and order. PROTESTS Mr Esipisu, however, said peaceful protests are lawful and protection by police will be offered. On Sunday, calm returned in riot-hit Mathare and adjacent areas of Huruma after perceived Nasa supporters took to the streets to protests election result Friday night. A 10-year-old girl was among people killed after she was hit by a bullet on the chest when police moved in to quell the protests in Mathare area. With the gazetting of the President and the Deputy President’s election, the State House spokesperson said the country should now move ahead towards the attainment of development objectives. At the same time, Deputy President elect William Ruto has reached out to election losers in Jubilee and Nasa calling for a common front in ensuring the unity of the country. Mr Ruto who spoke during a Sunday service at the Faith Evangelistic Ministry in Karen said Kenyans must respect the outcome of the elections. The just concluded election, Mr Ruto said, was an indication that the country’s democracy was maturing.  