IN LONDON Besides the start of the athletics action and the English Premier League’s big kick-off here, some interesting stories are doing the rounds in England this weekend. What especially caught my eye on Friday were two separate court rulings at London’s Westminster and Thameside magistrates’ courts. At Westminster, duty judge Grant McCrostie let a gorgeous Polish model off the hook after she was caught shoplifting items worth 1,000 pounds (Sh135,000) from an upmarket Harrods store because of her “intelligence” and “considerable talents.” In his much criticised ruling, the judge handed Natalia Sikorska, 28, a 12-month conditional discharge after she was caught attempting to steal designer items that included a Markus Lupfer jacket, Claudie Pierlot shoes, Pinko handbag and a silver knife last month. The judge singled out the intellectual brilliance of Sikorska, a business management and economics student at the University of Westminster, as a mitigating factor. “You are a newcomer to this country, you are a student with a place at university. You are obviously a woman of considerable talents, you are obviously intelligent,” the judge said. “As you have a bright future, we’ll deal with this more leniently than we should.” The maximum sentence for such shoplifting is six months in prison. Meanwhile, at the Thameside Magistrates’ Court, a billionaire socialite associated with Chelsea owner Roman Abramovic who went on a 17-hour drinking binge with a child in tow was let off with a paltry 500-pound (Sh65,500) fine. Nicole Ovchinnikova, 37, was arrested at London’s International Britannia Hotel in March after she began drinking at 5.40pm and went on until 10.30am the following morning when she could barely walk, and in the company of an obviously distressed child aged below seven. “This (hotel) was a public place and presumably had the hotel authorities been concerned, they could have told you to go to bed, but they didn’t, so we can deal with this by a fine,” chairman of the bench, John Ryder ruled. Both rulings have obviously irked Britons here with Twitter ablaze with criticisms of the judgments. “We all have talents, let’s get to Harrods and shoplift, what a joke,” read a tweet from one Laraine. “The poor are dealt with differently. Justice for the middle class, the alternative for the working class,” tweeted Angie B. Ike was more humorous: “The judge is right, Natalia Sikorska is a woman of ‘considerable talent.’ I see her talent,” he said in reference to photos of the blonde beauty that have since gone viral. “We need female judges to proceed over female criminals. Grant McCrostie must fancy this intelligent thief,” Dhin added. Well, as they say, the law is an ass…  