Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi stormed Mariakani Primary School polling station in Kaloleni Constituency after claims that marked presidential ballot papers were being used at the station. However, Kaloleni Returning Officer Alphonce Tsuwi showed Governor Kingi some of the ballot papers which had some marks on the faces of presidential candidates and explained that the marks happened during the printing of the ballot papers. It was later resolved that black pens be used for marking the ballots that had marks resulting from the printing process. Governor Kingi, in the company of Kaloleni ODM candidate Paul Katana, said he received a phone call from an agent and had to rush to the station. “I received a call from our agent that some marked presidential ballot papers were being used in this polling station. I have seen the papers bearing some small marks not on the marked areas but on the candidates’ names," he said. ISSUE RESOLVED The governor said that they had resolved together with the IEBC returning officer, that the ballot papers be used but all the agents be informed on the decision. "The marks emanated from the printer and we have agreed with the RO that they will be used and counted," he said. Kaloleni returning officer, who had to be called to address the issue, said they had agreed with all parties that the matter be resolved. "The matter has been sorted out and the voting exercise can continue. We are all in total agreement that because the ballot papers had been marked with blue ink, we shall continue to use our black ink and that they be used and counted during tallying," Mr Tsuwi said. VOTING SLOW At the same time, Governor Kingi said voting was going on very slowly and expressed fears that hundreds of voters could be locked out. He said most of the Kiems machines were very slow or not working after jamming since morning. "I am coming from Kamale in Magarini where I have been kept for more than four hours after the machines failed. We had to wait for another machine to be brought from Gongoni. They did not take long before they jammed," he said. He said he called the IEBC head of IT in Nairobi to inform him of the delays and was informed that the error had been rectified. "The officer has told me that the machines had been upgraded to 4G Internet system but as we speak now, most of them have totally failed, the governor said.  