On Monday this past week, Chris Msando, the IEBC ICT manager, was found murdered. Alongside him was Mary Ann Ngumbu, a 21-year-old student. As the internet erupted with praise for Msando and expressions of grief over his death, Mary Ann was treated as some sort of spectacle. Couldn t she find someone her age to hang out with? a male friend asked on social media, to my dismay. The conversation quickly moved from the fact that a young woman had been brutally murdered to discussions on why she was with him that night. SHE SHOULD HAVE KNOWN BETTER Now, we might never know the relationship these two shared. What I am concerned with is how, when a relationship is deemed inappropriate, we are quick to blame the woman. We will say: She should have known better or She should have been with someone else. A woman is expected to be chaste to conduct herself like a lady and there is never a margin for error in that regard. These unfair moral standards have been held against women for so long that when a woman finds herself in a fix with a man, she fully expects to be blamed for it. First, I do not think that it is our place to assign blame. If a situation involves two consenting adults, we do not have any business policing their relationship. That said, if a mistake has been made and there is blame to be assigned, let it be assigned equally. If two people are in an illicit relationship, then both of them are to blame for any damage resulting from this relationship.DON T BE QUICK TO ASSIGN BLAMEThink about the single mother situation: When we believe that a single mother got into her situation all by herself, we absolve a lot of dead beat fathers of their responsibility. And yet, it is the fathers who run away and the mothers who stay and raise their children.In contrast, single fathers with a dead beat baby mother are applauded for their decision to raise the child(ren). Most decisions regarding romantic relations, be it to have a child, to have a serious relationship or even to have an affair, are made by two people. Let s not be so quick to assign blame to women who find themselves in illicit affairs or abusive relationships. And ladies, should you find out that your partner is cheating on you, don t be so quick to demonise the other woman; he has a part to play in that other relationship because if he is engaging in it, he is participating. And don t forget that the other woman owes you nothing; only your husband or boyfriend does. And if you are raising children on your own, do not even for one second believe that this is your sole decision.That man made the decision to have children the moment he lay with you, whether he is present or not. email print email print