When Sega surfaced in the news earlier this week, my mind raced back to a debate I had with my family about spending a night there, or at Jera. We were driving home to Uganda for Christmas 1979, the first time we were heading there after the fall of Idi Amin. We had decided to stay overnight in Kenya and clear the border first thing in the morning.Sega town, in Siaya County, was the obvious choice, as it is the closest to Busia. But we found then-new Jera Inn so attractive that we decided to stay there for the night. Our young children were particularly attracted to the African hut structures, which they described as Hare s houses , from their picture books.Sadly, however, my recollections of Jera and Sega were prompted by the gruesome murder of Caroline Odinga, a woman in her prime, a wife, mother and teacher at Ugenya High School. We should certainly guard against speculative conclusions and accusations in a matter under investigation. But one cannot help the feelings of utter disgust, revulsion and indignation at the barbaric beastliness of this and other such acts.My outrage at this young woman s tragedy is compounded by a number of factors. I did not know Ms Odinga personally. But in view of her professional background, I am almost sure we had common acquaintances, and I would be grateful to hear from them. For, first and foremost, I acknowledge and honour Caroline as a fellow teacher, a colleague who could easily have been one of my students.If you kill a teacher, you kill knowledge. You plunge your society into the darkness of ignorance and backwardness. Is this where we are heading after 54 years of independence? What kind of demoniacally perverted mind could conceive of such an evil violation of a sacred vessel of knowledge?But Ms Odinga was also a woman and a mother. Womanhood and motherhood are the most fundamental symbols of the survival and continuity of our race. The deepest instincts of love, respect and dependence, both sought and given, are enshrined in the being of the woman. The savage abuse, violation, mutilation and destruction of a woman are catastrophic symptoms of a society that is fast losing its capability to survive.Even more disturbing is the realisation that such nefarious sacrileges of extreme sexist violence against our daughters, sisters, consorts, mothers and grandmothers, are no longer isolated incidents. They are becoming so common that they are increasingly being regarded as routine . News of Ms Odinga s murder ran side by side in the media with the developing story of a person who invited a Facebook friend to a face-to-face meeting, and murdered her, right here in Kenya.Over the border in Entebbe and in one neighbourhood of Kampala, there has been such a spate of ghastly murders, almost exclusively of young women, that observers are suspecting serial killers. The routines are almost always similar in their grisly detail.The young women are raped, strangled or hacked, with some body parts removed, and thrown naked by the road, often with spits and sticks thrust into their genitals. I crave your pardon for the frankness. But this is no time for euphemisms.Murders are committed for many reasons. Some are out of passion, like anger or jealousy. Others are in the process of robbery or conspiracies to silence potential accusers. Even the greed of hired killers is not uncommon. But all these cannot explain the horror of the cold-blooded desecration that is currently visited on the victims of these crimes.That, however, is enough of lamentation. We should be thinking of solutions. The clich d reaction to these abominations is that they are the result of poverty and the idleness and hopelessness of our youth. The jobless, idle youth, it is claimed, end up indulging in such dangerous vices as alcohol and drug consumption. This distorts their minds and personalities and also makes them easy prey to ruthless sharks, who hire them for criminal purposes.We accept this, for the sake of argument. But it certainly does not tell the whole story. I do not think, for example, that a person who can afford a Facebook account, and an app on which to operate it, to commit murder, is really a hopeless, jobless case. Neither does being hired to kill explain or justify the revolting desecrations of the victims of these murders.My own conviction is that the root cause of these despicable acts is the lack of social sense in our young generations. I have talked about this elsewhere, defining social sense as self-respect, respect for one another and respect for our environment. Proper inculcation of these three respects in our children, from the earliest stages of their lives, would go a long way in improving the decency of our societies and minimising the depravity that we are now lamenting.A self-respecting person is one who knows and always insists that a human being does not behave like that . This is what kept our sane societies functional and fruitful. This is what our sage philosophy and institutions like the Luo pakruoth or Tooro empaako praise-names or endearments were all about. The social sense aspect of other-respect is embedded in the Ubuntu (or ubinadamu) ethic of I am because you are. In other words, as the saying has it, other human beings are what makes you a human being. Respecting all human beings, regardless of gender, age, social or economic status, is what determines your value as a human being. It is worth noting that respect for the human person extends even beyond life, hence the hallowed state of the dead.Self-respect and other-respect inevitably engender environment-respect. A human being does not, should not, dwell in squalor, clamour and filth. Nor should they be subjected to such by their neighbours.These are the basics of social sense from which we should build a new human and humane society. Mwalimu Caroline Odinga will be proud of us if we continue toiling for them. Prof Bukenya is a leading scholar of English and Literature in East Africa. [email&#160;protected] email print email print