The lead-up to the August 8 elections was characterised by conflicting opinion polls, leaked documents, debate no-shows, enforced disappearances, desperate political manoeuvres and behind-the-scenes shifts in alliances. In perhaps the most dramatic development, Chris Msando, an Independent Electoral Boundaries Commission ICT manager was found murdered on July 31. His death further raised tensions and the risk of volatility in the polarised political landscape, overburdened Judiciary and seemingly ill-prepared electoral body, placing a strain on the democratic process. While Kenya has proven its resilience after crises, there are renewed concerns over the prospects for stability during and after these elections. The most decisive triggers that will determine political stability include the IEBC’s ability to conduct relatively credible elections, the manner in which the results are delivered, the reactions of the losing party (particularly to the presidential result), the robustness of the security infrastructure, and finally, the will of the people. HERCULEAN TASK Having been sworn in less than eight months ago, the IEBC has faced a herculean task of conducting its first election in a charged political atmosphere. It has been flogged with back-to-back court cases, petitions and questions over its transparency, credibility and preparedness. A stark reminder is the 2007 announcement of the presidential results, which was conducted in a confused and opaque manner, giving rise to speculation over ballot stuffing and consequently contributing to the violence which followed. Any opacity or malfeasance in the announcement of the presidential results risks a similar outcome. President Uhuru Kenyatta has already stated that if he were to lose the election, he would concede defeat. However, it is important to note that his prior acceptance of defeat in 2002 was before he had ascended to power, which has since turned the once timid man into a bold and sometimes hubristic politician. IRREGULARITIES Nasa’s Raila Odinga has indicated that he would unlikely concede if there are electoral irregularities, as seems likely. A contested outcome will not necessarily trigger instability. But if it occurs in a context of a highly flawed poll, the risk of a violent reaction will increase. But the relative independence of the Judiciary provides some recourse, particularly at the legislative and county government level, though the presidential ticket is a more sensitive and significant matter to handle, potentially resulting in a drawn-out legal challenges and political saga. Kenya was never prepared for the scale and magnitude of the 2007/08 post-election violence. Since then, the state has sought to prevent a repeat performance. Pre-emptive rather than reactive policing could be vital in ensuring the country’s stability. Given previous crises, Kenya has constantly shown its ability to recover relatively quickly and effectively, underlining the country’s political and social fabric have mechanisms for reconciliation and compromise, especially when backed up by a diplomatic process. NATIONAL UNITY The 2008 Government of National Unity was a testament of the leaders’ willingness to work together to avoid a prolonged crisis and instability. Kenya’s resilience is heavily influenced by the will of its citizens,  including media and civil society. Access to the Internet and technology for the growing youth population and the presence of an active media and civil society provide an accountability buffer in monitoring elections. Amid heightened electoral uncertainty, Kenyans are bracing themselves for a turbulent few weeks. Given the political stakes, a contested outcome with localised violence is the most likely scenario. But even then, the relative institutional strength, political appetite for compromise and broader desire for peace are likely to enable the country to avert a major prolonged conflict. Ms Cheramboss is a consultant, Africapractice Intelligence & Analysis. Twitter: @africapractice  