Once considered a veritable outpost thanks to its isolation and poor planning, Kehancha has become one of the fastest growing towns in Migori County. The town’s growth is largely attributed to devolution and the construction of the Migori-Kehancha Road. The road, which was completed early this year and runs through the town’s centre, has seen traders from as far as Kisii, Homa Bay,  Keroka and Nairobi trooping to the  town. A number of businesses have opened in the town, with many traders taking advantage of the Nairobi-bound buses that now ply the route to transport their merchandise to the city and other markets. Farmer Rioba Sammy says he can now transport his farm produce to Nairobi’s Wakulima market with ease. “This road has made it possible for buses from Nairobi to come here so I simply load my farm produce on the buses and take it to Wakulima Market where demand is high and returns are higher,” says Mr Rioba, who grows sweet potatoes, among other crops. BUSINESS BOOMING One business that is booming is the sale of second-hand clothes. “I used to do this business in Nairobi but shifted to this town when I realised that there was a great opportunity here compared with Nairobi, where there is stiff competition. Since I came here, business is doing very well,” says Mr Dan Maina. Due to the town’s favourable business environment and its closeness to the border town of Isibania, Tanzanian traders also flock it to sell their wares. Their cheaper commodities have greatly boosted business in the town. The business boom in the town, which is the headquarters of Kuria West Sub-county, as well as the need for housing for county workers due to devolution, have heightened demand for residential and commercial properties. As a result, the price of land in the town’s prime areas where developers are putting up commercial and rental properties, have shot up, with parcels close to the newly tarmacked road in high demand. A plot measuring 50x100 ft is now going for  between Sh300,000 and Sh500,000,  up from between Sh80,000 and Sh100,000  two years ago. Rents have also shot up, with a single-bedroom unit going for Sh6,000, up from Sh3,000 two years ago while rent for a two-bedroom house now ranges between Sh7,500 and Sh 9,000, up from Sh5,000. Many people, especially those working in the county government and with non-governmental organisations, are rushing to buy land and build homes on the outskirts of the town in places like Namba, Kehancha Chini and Igena. Mr John Muniko, a private developer who owns a number of properties in the town, says that Kehancha’s huge investment potential and the relatively cheap land, have drawn many investors. “The town was ignored by many investors in the past because it was considered remote, and access was poor.  This has changed with the tarmacking of the Migori-Kehancha Road and the advent of devolution. The price of land here is still a bit cheap compared with other towns [Migori and Isibania], and that is why investors have started trooping here,” he says. Besides, he notes, some investors are moving from Migori Town to Kehancha. “Migori lacks room for expansion and is already congested. That is why investors are coming to Kehancha,” he offers. The construction of a Kenya Medical Training College (KMTC) campus in the town has also created demand for accommodation for students and tutors. BOON TO HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY Hotels are also coming up in the town, with modern hotels springing up to cash in on the increase in demand. Well-known hotels like Octagon, Sunrise, Premier and Royal Springs have recorded remarkable increase in the number of clients. Mr Mark Maroa, who works at the Royal Springs Hotel, says the hotels benefit mostly from the conferences and seminars held by the county government and non-governmental organisations. The town’s location is also a major plus. “The fact that the town is close to the Kenya–Tanzania border and the Maasai Mara Game Reserve means that it stands to benefit from tourism, especially once the key roads linking it with Narok County are constructed,” says Reinphalz Okello, a real estate agent in Migori Town. Kehancha is connected to Narok County via the Lolgorian-Kilgoris and the Kehancha-Kegonga-Gwitembe roads. However, despite the remarkable progress, insecurity remains a big challenge. Residents, traders and investors say armed robberies occur with alarming frequency. “We have witnessed several violent robberies in broad daylight. This is hurting businesses in the town. Something should be done to stop this,” says Mr John Chacha, a local resident. The residents also hope the government will fulfil its pledge to build the Kehancha–Kegonga and Isibania–Kehancha roads, which, they say, will be a boon to Kehancha.  