President Uhuru Kenyatta on Monday called for peace and appealed to Nasa leader Raila Odinga to use the courts to resolve his dispute on the election results. He at the same time asked police to exercise restraint in dealing with those who might wish to hold protests. The President noted that it is lawful to hold a demonstration as long as it is peaceful, orderly and respects the convenience of others. SWEAR INThe President spoke after meeting the Assumption of Office Committee chaired by Head of Public Service Joseph Kinyua. The President will be seen sworn in for a second term on August 29, unless there is a petition in which case the date moves to September 9, if the petition is unsuccessful. Appearing conciliatory a day before Mr Odinga declares his next course of action after rejecting the results and saying he will not go to court, President Kenyatta said he extended a hand of peace to his rivals, and urged Kenyans to avoid violence in case of opposition protests. SECURITYSpeaking at the footsteps of Harambee House in his first public appearance after IEBC declared him the winner of August 8 elections, the President urged those not satisfied with the election outcome to seek legal redress by following the mechanisms laid down in the Constitution. He was accompanied by acting Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i and Garissa Township MP Adan Duale. “If there are those who are aggrieved and feel like they are not ready to accept (General Election results), there are also constitutionally laid down procedures that they can use to express their dissatisfaction while allowing the remaining millions of Kenyans, who wish to continue with their normal lives, to do so,” President Kenyatta said. UNITYThe President also extended an olive branch to Nasa, saying he is ready to come to a common table of friendship and peace with them “since at the end of the day we are all Kenyans”. “To our friends who are yet to accept the outcome, we continue to appeal to them and we have extended our arm and a hand of peace and friendship,” he said. The President appealed to Kenyans to maintain peace, stop fighting each other and desist from destruction of property and looting. VIOLENCE At the same time, he thanked Kenyans for voting peacefully last week on Tuesday. “I continue to appeal to those who have for one reason or another rejected the outcome to go by the principle that I said earlier that at the end of the day we are all Kenyans. "We do not need to fight one another, destroy each other’s property. We do not need to do all that,” he said. He reiterated that there was no need to fight over an election outcome, adding that police are ready to facilitate peaceful demonstrations. “All Kenyans have a constitutional right to express themselves in a peaceful manner, but the government will not allow the disruption of other people’s lives, loss of lives, destruction of property,” he warned. DEMONSTRATE“The police are willing and ready, say you want to have a demonstration at this place and at this time, organise it with the police. "You do not need my permission or Jubilee’s permission. It is there in the law, just do it peacefully, orderly and do not interrupt the lives of other Kenyans while expressing your views. That is allowed and nobody has a problem,” he said. The President also thanked millions of Kenyans who had returned to work, saying their effort is key to the economy. This came a day after Mr Odinga asked Kenyans to boycott work on Monday and await for a direction from him on Tuesday (August 15). “We are grateful that Kenyans have said the election is behind them and a majority have returned to work. "We encourage that. I have nothing to add other than thank Kenyans. Turudi kazini, tuwe pamoja na tuwe na amani na tuendeleze taifa letu la Kenya (Let’s return to work, co-exist peacefully and move our beloved Kenya forward),” he said. POLICEAfter meeting security chiefs at his Harambee House office to assess the security situation in the country, President Kenyatta also thanked the police, who have come under fire over the quelling of protests in parts of the country, for a sterling job in keeping law and order throughout the electioneering period. However, he urged them to exercise the greatest of restraint when dealing with protesters. “I truly believe that there is no single Kenyan who wants to continue seeing violence, looting and demonstrations, where property ends up being destroyed,” he said. “To our policemen and women, we thank them for the good work they are doing and we continue to encourage them to use restraint as they exercise their duties,” he added.   They however ruled out the possibility of him conceding.