With only two days remaining to the General Election, the West Pokot gubernatorial contest remains fairly balanced with two leading candidates hoping to clinch the seat. Incumbent Governor Simon Kachapin is facing a tough challenge from Senator John Lonyangapuo, who has run a spirited campaign aimed at dislodging the county boss. DECAMPBoth ran successful campaigns on Kanu tickets in 2013 but later fell out. Mr Kachapin then quit the independence party and joined Jubilee. Prof Lonyangapuo, on the other hand, stayed put but changed his ambitions. He is now eyeing Mr Kachapin’s seat. SPOKESMENIn 2013, the two went round the county together asking for votes and a result, Mr Kachapin became the only Kanu Governor in the country while Prof Lonyangapuo joined Baringo Senator Gideon Moi as the only two elected senators of the party. The battle for the more than 180,000 registered voters in the county is now perfectly set for the two, although it has often turned into a Kanu-versus-Jubilee affair. Both have already been crowned as Pokot community spokesman by different sets of elders making the race more interesting. TEACHINGMr Kachapin was fairly new in politics before 2013. He was plucked by Kanu from Ortum High School where he was a principal while Prof Lonyangapuo served in the grand coalition government as Public Works Permanent Secretary. “I will give Lonyangapuo a run for his money. He should tell residents his achievements in the last four years as a senator. "I am ready to show him dust. Jubilee will sweep all the seats from MCA, MPs, Senator, and Governor and of course vote for President Uhuru Kenyatta. "This is a Jubilee zone. No question about that,” Mr Kachapin says. COLLEGEHe dismissed Kanu’s support for President Kenyatta, saying the party only wanted to benefit from Jubilee’s wave in the Rift Valley. “We read mischief in their support of the President. They kept guessing on which candidate to support for a long time and now think they can easily win seats. "Kanu will not win any seat in the county. We told them but they refused. West Pokot is 99 per cent Jubilee,” the governor adds. The Governor says he banked on a number of development projects including aiding the setting up of the first Kenya Medical Training College in the county and also the construction of the Makutano Stadium. “I have tried to alleviate poverty by initiating many development projects in the county. I cannot be a one-term governor. "I will show Lonyangapuo dust. I have changed the image of Pokot land. Lonyangapuo is only hungry for power,” the governor quips. CORRUPTIONProf Lonyangapuo, a professor of Applied Mathematics, was a principal of Chepkoilel Campus, then affiliated to Moi University before it became a full-fledged university now named the University of Eldoret, before being appointed PS. He has exploited the accusations made against Mr Kachapin’s administration promising to deal with the vices if elected next Tuesday. He has often cited runaway corruption, absence of priorities, poor infrastructure in most parts of the county, saying things will be different if he was in power. “There is nothing residents can pinpoint that stands out as being done by Kachapin to alleviate them from acute poverty. "Devolution has only been realised in Kapenguria town. He does not have a clear development record. He has nothing to show at all,” Prof Lonyangapuo says. MANIFESTOHe pledges to offer transparent leadership, pointing out that his manifesto was pegged on three pillars: ensuring equity, promoting education for all and improving the lives of the people. “I am known countrywide for my performance. I want to correct things that have gone wrong in the county. "Many county projects are incomplete according to the Auditor General reports despite the county receiving over Sh21 billion since 2013. "Kachapin should start packing his belongings because I will defeat him,” the Senator adds. RECORDThe senator also says his performance in the Senate has been satisfactory and that he would put similar effort in running the county government if he emerges victorious. “My performance in the Senate has been sterling. If you asked Senators, they will tell you the backbone of that Senate, especially on debate on any issue is the West Pokot senator. "That’s an issue where there is no divided opinion,” Prof Lonyangapuo, who was once ranked as the most active senator, says. ENDORSEAs the battle rages, Deputy President William Ruto has also been sucked into it. The DP has been publicly pushing for Governor Kachapin’s re-election to the chagrin of Prof Lonyangapuo. “It doesn’t matter how many times Ruto visits West Pokot; he will not change voters’ minds. "This is a Kanu zone and it doesn’t matter how frequently he comes here. It will not change the stand of the majority in the county. "I will make sure I win this seat. Ruto should not impose leaders on residents just to intimidate Kanu,” he says. RUNNING MATESThe Senator says Kanu’s support for the President’s re-election is unequivocal, insisting it was not a desperate move to help its candidates win seats. Prof Lonyangapuo picked Dr Nicholas Atudonyang, who hails from Pokot South, in a bid to consolidate his votes while Mr Kachapin chose to retain his deputy Titus Lotee, who comes from North Pokot for a similar objective. The county hosts more than five tribes, with the Pokots the majority.  