As President Donald Trump s proposed budget cuts threaten work in many parts of the world, Kenya included, top evangelicals and officials of donor agencies have written to the American Head of State, asking that he reconsiders his stand.More than 100 Christian leaders from across the United States are calling on Congress to avoid disproportionate cuts to America s foreign assistance programmes.In a letter to the House and Senate leadership, the petitioners write: It is our moral responsibility to urge you to support and protect the International Affairs Budget , saying we cannot turn our back on those in desperate need. The signers representing the Catholic and evangelical communities include national leaders, pastors, heads of faith organisations, recording artists and authors. Cardinal Timothy Dolan and Rev Samuel Rodriguez who spoke at Trump s inauguration are also among the signers.As the budget process moves to Capitol Hill, the leaders stress that America must remain that shining city on a hill that brings hope to the poor, hungry, [and] the vulnerable. The Trump administration released its budget blueprint over a week ago in which it laid out the anticipated cutbacks to international aid programmes. The plan reduces the State Department and United States Agency for International Development budget by 28 per cent. As followers of Christ, it is our moral responsibility to urge you to support and protect the International Affairs Budget, and avoid disproportionate cuts to these vital programmes that ensure that our country continues to be the shining city upon a hill, they said. Currently, foreign assistance America s contribution to health care and development efforts abroad represents a fraction of one per cent of the nation s budget.WORLD RELIEFSignatories include leaders from humanitarian aid groups including World Vision USA, World Relief, Compassion International, Living Water International, Food for the Hungry, as well as denominational leaders from the Southern Baptist Convention, Assemblies of God, Wesleyan Church, Church of Nazarene, the Anglican Church in North America, the Christian Reformed Church in North America, and the National Association of Evangelicals. Catholic Relief Services and several Catholic dioceses.Most of these organisations have programmes in Kenya or in the region. Multiple sources at the African Nazarene University sponsored by the Church of Nazarene said their situation was already not too rosy even before the new proposed cuts.World Vision is heavily involved in charity work and right now is deep in the drought mitigation in northern Kenya. The Regional Director of Communications Nancy Okwengu said they did not have a specific response to the proposed ban but that they were going by a statement issued by World Vision ISA director Richard Stearns, one of those who signed the letter. For more than 50 years, World Vision has worked alongside US government partners to address the needs of poor children and families living in poverty around the world. While World Vision proudly raises millions of dollars from the American people each year, government funding enables us to expand our programmes and increase their sustainability.'IS SIGNIFICANT' The impact of US foreign assistance is significant. I have seen the gratitude in a mother s face when she knows her child will survive to age five. I ve seen the pride of youth who have the chance to embrace education, giving them hope for their future and sparing them from the lure of extremism. I ve watched the transformation of communities as farmers harness the tools to produce better crops and entrepreneurs use microloans to start businesses and create jobs. This is all the result of American generosity. Foreign assistance is the right thing for the US to do because it saves lives, reflecting our country s regard for life and human potential. But it s also a smart thing to do, in the best interest of our country. It helps us make friends, invest in trading partners, and promote stability around the world. And it s cheap less than one per cent of the federal budget, Mr. Stearns said.World Relief is the only non-profit organisation with a permanent, long-term presence in Turkana North. What started as a water shortage in Turkana has escalated into a massive drought and resulting food crisis. Recently the Kenyan government declared a national emergency in response to two years of missed rain in Turkana. Join us in providing immediate food assistance and nutrition outreach to the people of Turkana, the organisation says of its work in Kenya. email print email print Budget Director Geoffrey Mwau touts a growing middle class and robust consumer spending. Alex Mutungi Mutuku, linked to theft at the tax agency, is battling to be freed on bond.