The National Land Commission’s planned resettlement of the Ogieks on land in the Mau Forest Complex in Nakuru has been halted. A Nakuru court Thursday ordered the commission for the second time not to interfere in the ownership of controversial land in Nessuit and Marioshoni s until March 31. The court first barred the agency on September 13, 2016. Land Court Judge Sila Munyao said on March 31, she will rule on whether the Ogieks will be enjoined in the case or not. In the case, more than 4,900 residents have sued the commission seeking to stop its planned resettlement of Ogieks on the disputed land. They are laying claim to the land which the commission had planned to subdivide and settle the Ogieks. The residents’ lawyer, Aim Yoni, sued the commission, the Nakuru County registrar, county surveyor and the Attorney-General. They want the court to compel the commission to issue them with title deeds for the lands. They also want the court to lift all restrictions effected by the commission with regard to the lands. EVICTIONS They say that the commission is making fresh demarcations and issuing new allotment letters in Nessuit and Marioshoni with the aim of eventually evicting them and settling Ogieks. They also claimed that NLC had plans to close and deny any person access to the parcels of land forming part of the Eastern Mau. In the suit the residents stated that NLC has violated their constitutional rights and that they are likely to suffer irreparable damage and loss of their main source of livelihood. They were prompted to move to court by a recent announcement by NLC that it is taking a tally of all the members of the Ogiek community ahead of a planned resettlement and issuance of fresh title deeds. NLC on its part has maintained that it is looking at long-term measures to address the age-old conflicts between government agencies and indigenous settlers. The Mau Forest is part of the Mau complex, which straddles several counties and is Kenya’s biggest forest. The complex covers 400,000 hectares and is the biggest single block of forest in East Africa.  