ABUJA, Friday The death toll from the meningitis outbreak in Nigeria has risen to 314 amid reports by the Centre for Disease Control (CDC) of a vaccine shortage. The disease has spread to 15 states and the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja where five people have been killed. It has reached epidemic proportion in Zamfara, Sokoto, Kebbi, Katsina and Niger states. Zamfara state in the northwestern part of the country has recorded 44 deaths, Katsina, 32 deaths, Sokoto, 19 deaths, Kebbi, 10 deaths and Niger, 49 deaths. The CDC s technical assistant to the chief executive officer (CEO) on communications, Dr Lawal Bakare, said in Abuja on Friday that the outbreak was beyond vaccination because it was caused by a new strain virus. Dr Bakare said there was currently a shortage of the vaccine for the particular meningitis strain worldwide. The meningitis outbreak was first reported in Zamfara early this month, but the number of the affected has since risen to 1,966. Nigeria has resolved to involve a multi-agency control team to coordinate response. The team includes the National Primary Health Care Development Agency, the World Health Organization, the United Nations Children's Fund, the United States Centres for Disease Control, M decins Sans Fronti res and eHealth Africa. We must work collectively to stop this outbreak and prevent outbreaks of this scale in the future, CDC s CEO Chikwe Ihekweazu, said in Abuja. Massive immunisation has been ordered across the affected 36 states. Experts report that the outbreak occurred because of the prolonged dry season and the associated heat and low humidity and dusty conditions. Meteorological reports say that temperatures in Abuja ranged between 40 and 45 degrees Celsius, the highest in recent times. Meningitis begins with an infection by bacteria or virus. It causes the covering of the brain or meninges to swell. The disease may be carried in the throat, but can overwhelm the body s defences and spread through the bloodstream to the brain. email print email print Any other European club would have been more ideal than China. Joyciline Jepkosgei launched her international running career only a year ago.