MPs want the former National Youth Service deputy director-general Adan Harakhe charged with perjury over the alleged theft of his password and authenticity of his academic qualifications investigated. The Public Accounts Committee that was investigating the loss of billions of shillings at the NYS concluded that there was no evidence adduced to ascertain that Mr Harakhe’s password was stolen. The Auditor-General Edward Ouko had indicated in his report to Parliament that Sh1.8 billion was lost. The committee recommended that the Director of Public Prosecutions reviews his earlier decision not to charge Mr Harakhe over attempted theft of Sh695 million. “The DPP should further institute charges against him for his role in approving a duplicate payment of Sh12.5 million to the Consulting House,” the MPs said in a report tabled in Parliament. READ: Harakhe, Noor arrested over NYS scandal READ: Harakhe 'reported directly to Waiguru' The firm, Consulting House, was hired to restructure the NYS in what later came to be referred to as the NYS five-Point Vision. Mr Japther Kiplimo Rugut, a former NYS director-general will also be investigated for abuse of office following claims that he recommended direct procurement of the Consulting House, contrary to the Public Procurement and Disposal Act. The NYS saga led to the resignation of Anne Waiguru as Devolution Cabinet secretary and the sacking of PS Peter Mangiti, and prosecution of other key officials in the ministry such NYS director-general Nelson Githinji. The MPs demanded that the Public Service Commission immediately reviews all the disciplinary cases against Mr Harakhe. “In the same breadth, the Commission for University Education should immediately investigate the authenticity of the academic qualifications held by Mr Harakhe,” the MPs said. If found to have been promoted based on fake or falsified qualifications, the PSC should take appropriate action. The Auditor-General is required to conduct a comprehensive forensic audit of the ministry and all its agencies and development budgets for the period 2013-2016 and furnish Parliament with a report by December 31.  