Members of the Nyeri County Assembly have passed the controversial supplementary budget but with amendments which are likely to cause friction between them and Governor Samuel Wamathai. The MCAs scrapped off the purchase of a Sh13 million vehicle for the governor while reducing the allocation to the county secretary’s office by Sh24.5 million. Budget and Appropriation Committee Chairman Duncuan Gituanja said the expenditure on a new vehicle was unnecessary as the executive had not justified the purchase. “An assessors report on the governor’s vehicle that was involved in an accident was to be provided to justify the purchase of a new vehicle. However, that was not [made available],” he said. The approval of the budget comes in the backdrop of a disgruntled assembly owing to events that unfolded during the burial of former Governor Nderitu Gachagua. While addressing mourners the President pleaded with the MCAs to pass the budget and give Mr Wamathai a chance to work. MISLED UHURU During the Wednesday morning sitting, Aguthi Gakii MCA Wachira Waruru accused the governor of misleading the Head of State and ruining the reputation of the assembly by insinuating that MCAs had delayed in passing the budget. “Whether intentional or not, our governor misled our President on the status of the budget. This assembly is not a conveyor belt. It has a duty to scrutinise budgets,” he said. The county will spend Sh4.87 billion on recurrent expenditure while the development expenditure will take up Sh2.3 billion. The county has also appropriated Sh693 million which remained unspent in the County Revenue Fund at the closure of the 2015/2016 financial year. “This amount has been factored and will be [used] to clear the pending bills and commitments,” said Finance Executive Charles Githinji. HOSPITAL EQUIPMENT Nyeri County Referral Hospital will also purchase a laundry machine, a CT scan machine and a generator, giving reprieve to patients. The equipment will cost the county Sh27 million. However, the MCAs asked the executive to speed up the implementation of development projects. In the budget, the MCAs will pocket Sh100 million in allowances after they re-allocated themselves an extra Sh40 million. County Secretary Alice Wachira on the other hand asked the ward reps to pass the law regulating the disbursement of the Enterprise Fund so that traders have access to the Sh30 million set aside. “Talk to your ward representatives so that they pass the regulations and those who have applied for the loans can have the money deposited in the accounts,” she said.   The MCAs accused Mr Rigathi of embezzling county funds.