Metallic accents are a trendy way of adding a glamorous look into your home. From attractive light fixtures, accented walls and shiny book cases, metallic accents will spruce up the look of your space while acting as eye candy for people who visit your home. Catherine Nduku, an interior designer and the proprietor of Trina Jones Décor, points out that metallic accents are versatile, highly attractive and durable. “Just like you would use wood, stone or glass to decorate, metallic decor also comes in flexible shapes, designs and sizes,” she says. She notes that metallic accents can be infused into different spaces, including living rooms, bathrooms, bedrooms, kitchens, and even the outdoor spaces. “This kind of decorative trend is mostly showcased on the walls, furniture, light fixtures as well as placement items that can also be spread along stair cases, flowing into different rooms,” she adds.   DIFFERENT ACCENTS There are different kinds of metals that can effectively be built-in into your space. “Gold metallic accents will add a poppy statement to your room. For those looking for a modern, chic look, this is what to go for,” explains the designer. “When well combined with different geometric patterns, gold accents will create a bold statement to your space,” she adds. Silver comes in a range of different finishes and can also be used to decorate. “Silver metallic accents are extremely versatile and when paired correctly with other décor pieces, will complement your home design,” she says. The designer, who has been in business for over five years, is quick to add that rare metals can also be integrated in home décor. “While it might be underrated, copper metallic accents are eye catching and will add a sparkle to your home. Vintage gold and brass are making a comeback in home décor while wrought and stainless steel remain a favourite for many,” she explains. HOW TO DECORATE The designer notes that mirrors are a trendy way of decorating. “Using large, bold mirrors with something metallic is a great way of adding that extra sparkle! A golden frame for a wall mirror, will give a classic look, provide a certain atmosphere and create an edge that suits modern décor.” “Furniture can also incorporate metallic accents. You can combine wood and metal in furniture to give a medieval look. A simple wrought iron bed makes the art pieces and mirrors in a room really pop. While decorating trends come and go, wrought iron beds are a classic. When coupled with a white duvet and some warm throw pillows, the room comes out as cozy as well,” she further notes. According to the designer, use of light weight metal on picture frames will give a Tuscan look to your space. “Add a bright gold picture frame in with a cluster of traditional black or white or mix a silver pillows in with a bunch of coloured fabrics,” As Nduku further explains, there are many small ways in which one can use metallic accents. “Spray bottles are handy and readily available at home. One can spray the bottles to their metallic colour of choice. Wall hangings can also be sprayed as well as other decorative pieces including tins and cans of different shapes and sizes that can also serve as storage,” she adds. CONSIDER THEMES AND COLOURS “Silver accents go well with cool colours, for instance, purple and silver, while gold goes well with warm colours such as red and gold. Dark tints of wrought iron go with pretty much all bright colours,” she explains. “When combining metallic accents with glass or furniture; consider the strength and durability, as well as the rusting effect. Will the metal of choice stand the weight of the glass or wood that you intend to use?” GIVE YOUR LIGHTING ATTENTION “Candle fixtures — metallic candle holders give an ancient feel, especially when placed on a rustic wooden dining table or fixed on a wall. For those in need of flashy lights, decorative copper pendants lighting in the dining room will also create an interesting look,” says Nduku.  “With a combination of bold chairs and fabrics, different accents on the wall will create a dramatic look,” she adds. SPRAY IT ON You can create beautiful and cost effective metallic accents for your home by using quality metallic spray paint on different home décor objects of your choice. “Metallic sprays come in variety of colours depending on the effects one requires. You can use these sprays to pimp an old wooden picture frame for example. Spray it with gold or bronze. Recycle old glass and wine bottles by spraying them with silver and use them as centrepieces for your dining table, or a corner shelf,” The designer, however, notes that it is always important to strike a balance between rich accents and the rustic or more neutral accents to create a sense of neutrality while still maintaining the sparkle. PLACING - MIX IT UP Mixing metals and finishes can be done to a stylish effect. “Your entryway sets the tone for your whole house, and should blend in with the rest of your home décor. It’s the first and the last part of your home that guests will see. You can place rustic candle holders as centerpiece of the first piece of décor in the entryway,” she advises. “You can have wallpaper that is orange in colour with faded textures of gold. A large gold frame mirror or gold picture frame can add a great statement not only to the wall, but the room as a whole,” she adds. Flow from one room to another “The metallic accents should not make the room look clustered. For instance, spruce up your entryway with a few metallic accents; add candle holders or mirror to a living room with wrought iron sofas, one of each in every room is recommended. Size of the decorative items should also be considered. Small but many, and large but few works,” notes Catherine. DON’T GO OVERBOARD “Too much of something is poisonous. This also applies when doing décor with metallic accents,” says Nduku. “You do not want your personal space to look like some tin making factory at the end of the day. Metallic accents are shouting, so a little goes a long way. You can have three to four small metallic accents in a room - that is fine. Also, one or two large metallic accents in a room are enough,” advises the designer. In conclusion, the designer notes that many people limit themselves when it comes to metal decorations. “Metal has been used for years. The trend is pretty much best embraced in modern décor,” she argues.   