Kevin Kariuki showed a knack for business at an early age, volunteering at his father’s photo studio before he got to his teens. After completing high school, he got a temporary job with a tea and coffee-selling company where he assisted with preparing the firm’s financial accounts, thanks to his good grade in math. While here, he enrolled at St Paul’s University with the support of his family to study business administration. He would later do an online course in entrepreneurship offered by Swiss Management Center. “I loved that accounting job and considered a career in accounting, however, I resented the routine that came with the job,” explains Kevin, adding that the thought of working his way through rigid systems, from high school to university to the corporate world and finally to where he wanted to be, also weighed him down. “I was therefore keen to find a short cut to my destination, and going into business seemed to be it.” With this in mind, he left his job and set up a company, Kevin Kay Holdings, now two years old and located at View Park Towers in the CBD. Why did you go into business? I figured long ago that it is something that comes naturally to me. I am also a risk taker; when a business idea comes up, I am not hesitant to give it a try. At the moment, I am running three businesses: Blessed Basket, a vegetable delivery business I started in 2014. I grow traditional vegetables such as Kunde, (cowpeas leaves) terere, (Amaranth) and managu, (nightshade) in my father’s farm in Kiambu County, which I then sell. More and more people are turning to healthy living, raising the demand for these vegetables. I deliver them straight from the farm to my customers, cutting out the middleman, thus making full profit. My second business is Kake sounds, a partnership with a friend, Joseph Keronyo, which we started in 2015. We offer public address services at events such as weddings, funerals, road shows and rallies. We also offer DJ and MC services. I am also into affiliate marketing. I work for QNET International, a Hong Kong-based online marketing business that offers a range of products in areas such as health and wellness, technology, motor care, education and beauty. I would say that this is my main business. You say your first business was a flop… Entrepreneurship is one bumpy ride. When I quit my accounting job, I set up a food delivery business. I would make smoothies, juices and fruit salads and sell them in offices around Kiambu town. The business did well for the first four months but collapsed in the fifth month. Fruits and juices don’t do well during cold seasons – I just didn’t make any sales during this period, and so the business fizzled out. In business, one needs perseverance. Entrepreneurship is like war. You need to have nerves of steel because you go into it blind to the outcome. That said, failure is part of the learning curve, not a mark of shame. How much capital did you set up your business with? Just Sh4, 500. It was part of the savings I had put away from my first and only office job. When the business failed, I invested what I had left in farming. I got the capital to kick off Kake sounds from my farming business. What is a working day like for you? I wake up at 5am. Between then and 6am, I engage in a practice called Sphere of Silence. It is explained in Vijay Eswaran’s bestselling book, In the Sphere of Silence. The practice is composed of three sections; the path of duty, where I reflect on activities of the previous day, the path of devotion, where I pray and write 10 things that I am grateful for, and the path of knowledge, where I read a chapter of a book that will inspire me to do better. I then head to the farm and check on the drip irrigation system and if need be, I do a little of the manual activities, such as weeding. I also ensure that orders for the day are packed for delivery. Thereafter, I check emails and catch up with schedules for the online marketing business, an activity that occupies my time until evening. Weekends are mostly dedicated to Kake Sounds because that is when most people hold events. What is your most satisfying moment in business? When the check slides across the table; it is fulfilling when the hard work finally pays off. On a bad month, I make around Sh100,000, but as the businesses grow, I foresee much better returns. So far, I have helped my parents to put up a better house and recently invested in a piece of land. I have also been able to buy a car, which I sometimes hire out to maximise on what I make. What major setbacks have you experienced so far? Challenges differ from one business to another, but the greatest is the pressures of juggling multiple ventures and the difficulty of securing a healthy work-life balance. As a businessman, you are in control of your destiny. The results are directly proportional to the amount of effort you put in. This is sometimes difficult especially if you are running more than one business. What motivates you to get up daily and go to work? I am my own motivator, but I also look up to some successful entrepreneurs like Malaysia’s Vijay Eswaran, Executive Chairman, QI Group of Companies. What are the three must-have attributes that an entrepreneur should possess? Passion, focus and mentorship. Learning from those who have been there and done that is priceless. What does the future hold for you? Apart from expanding my business, I am planning to go back to school. I did not complete my degree, having dropped out during my first year due to financial constraints.  