LOS ANGELESStephen Curry and Andre Iguodala weighed in with 24 points each as the Golden State Warriors defeated the Atlanta Hawks 119-111 on Monday.The Warriors maintained their grip on the Western Conference rankings after an inspired performance from Iguodala, who scored his points after coming off the bench to lead a second-quarter rally.Iguodala made six of eight shots from the field as well as grabbing five rebounds, three steals and providing four assists as the Warriors improved to 52-11 for the season.It was a vintage display from Iguodala, who is eager to help fill the void created by the injury to Kevin Durant."Collectively, as a unit, we try to make up for KD's presence," Iguodala said. "Tonight we did a great job of that," added Iguodala, a pivotal figure in the Dubs' 2015 NBA Finals win.Iguodala's performance delighted Warriors coach Steve Kerr. "I told him it looked like he was 25 out there again," he said of the 33-year-old."Andre has been absolutely phenomenal the last couple of weeks. He just looks so spry out there and young and confident and such a great basketball player."Curry's 24-point haul included six three-pointers and he also contributed nine assists and four rebounds.Klay Thompson meanwhile finished with 13 points, all scored in the second half, while Draymond Green had eight rebounds, six assists and 12 points. Atlanta, who fell to 34-29, saw point guard Dennis Schroder net 23 points. However, Schroder was hooked with 9:30 left in the third quarter, with coach Mike Budenholzer clearly unhappy with his defensive work. At one point, an unmarked Curry calmly drained a three as Schroder argued with centre Dwight Howard."There were moments when it felt like we were close to getting back in it and competing," Budenholzer said. "A few more plays from our guys here and there and a few less threes from Iguodala... but that's the game."The Hawks leading scorers also included Paul Millsap with 20 points and 10 rebounds. Tim Hardaway Jr. had 19 points, four rebounds and five assists while Kent Bazemore had 18 points.It was a third straight loss for Atlanta, who led by 15 points in the second quarter before the Warriors gradually built momentum to close to 66-61 at the half.Thompson led the Warriors fightback in the third period with nine points before Golden State went on to close out the win. email print email print Andrew Bogut suffered a season-threatening broken leg on his Cleveland debut.Police say they plan to charge the Laikipia North lawmaker with the murder of Sosian ranch President says the refugee complex no longer serves the purpose it was designed for.