Striking university lecturers will this week resume street demonstrations after most of them were denied last month’s salaries. “My attention has been drawn to a new immoral practice by some vice-chancellors to withdraw the meagre salaries of dons, to starve us into servitude,” said University Academic Staff Union (Uasu) Secretary-General Constantine Wasonga on Sunday. The University of Nairobi, in a memo to its staff, had indicated that striking lecturers would not be paid, a move that has affected even those tutors who were working. “This is to inform all University of Nairobi staff that their February 2017 salaries have been prepared for disbursement to their respective accounts,” wrote Deputy Vice-Chancellor in charge of Administration and Finance Isaac Mbeche. “Kindly note that only those members of staff who carried out their duties fully in the month of February 2017 shall be paid their salaries, subject to government capitation and internally generated funds.” BROKEN BY MANAGEMENT Dr Wasonga said the strike will continue until their collective bargaining agreement is negotiated, signed, registered and implemented. “Lecturers from all the corners of this cherished country have vowed not to be cowed or broken by management as we stand up in solidarity to secure dignified working conditions and safeguard the quality of university education,” said Dr Wasonga. “Let no don be arm-twisted by management to scab or backleg.” The trade unionist went on: “Dons, the stakes in this strike are so high that the union’s cup of compassion runneth dry for scabs. However, let’s all reach out in solidarity to colleagues who may be tempted to go back to class due to withdrawal of salaries.” The don described the Sarah Serem-chaired Salaries and Remuneration Commission as a stumbling block to the talks, saying it continued to insult lecturers by applying a tool best suited to evaluate factory workers in the ongoing job evaluation.   More than 8,000 lecturers are participating in the strike.