Hosts Homeboyz and Kabras Sugar have bolstered their squads ahead of their Kenya Cup clash on Saturday, easily the pick of the weekend, as the race for play-off positions intensifies.Another explosive looking showdown beckons at Nakuru Athletic Club where Resolution Impala Saracens, who have made three changes to their team that beat Nondies last weekend, will be eyeing hosts Nakuru s scalp.Impala are placed fifth on the table with 45 points while Nakuru are sixth on 34. Leaders Kenya Commercial Bank (KCB) (51) and Kenya Harlequin (50) hope to reap maximum points when they face season weaklings Nondies and Mean Machine at KCB Sports Club and the University of Nairobi respectively.Homeboyz will be without their instrumental winger Collins Shikoli, who twisted his ankle in their 32-16 victory over Blak Blad last Saturday. Cyprian, who started off the bench against Blak Blad, comes in as replacement.Homeboyz coach Paul Murunga will be without five players at his backline with Oscar Ayodi, Leonard Mugaisi, Bush Mwale and Augustine Lugonzo away on national duty with Kenya Sevens team in the USA and Canada World Rugby Sevens series. Centre Jeff Oluoch replaces Ayodi while Nelson Sangura comes in for Mugaisi. Stanley Isogol and Brian Gisembe cover Mwale and Lugonzo at back-row and scrum-half respectively. Murunga said his backline will still click especially with the return of winger Charles Omondi from a fractured sheen sustained at Christie Sevens in September.Kabras Sugar deputy coach Anthony Ogot welcomes back centre Nick Baraza, flanker Lekima Tudriaki to his starting line-up, replacing Johnston Lung aho, Levy Ochieng and John Kubu respectively. Ochieng is injured, while Lung aho moves to the bench with Kubu going to the wing, replacing Peter Nakarawa, who starts on the bench.The two teams meet for the first time since Enterprise Cup quarter-finals last season where Kabras overwhelmed the Deejays 60-22. Homeboyz, won 29-28 in their last Kenya Cup outing. Homeboyz, who are in great shape, having won their last seven matches, are currently placed third in Kenya Cup league with 49 points, four better than fourth-placed Kabras. Whoever will come to the duel with the right mind and form shall prevail, said Murunga. But I am glad the structures we have been using are working but we shall need to raise the intensity against Kabras. We expect an interesting battle going by the Deejay s winning streak, said Ogot. We are well prepared for an all-round intense battle. Right winger Leon Adongo is out for one week after he injured ankle while utility prop Stephen Juma returns to the Gazelles as loose-head. James Kubasu goes to the bench. Hooker Kelvins Karani and tight-head Anthony Orege prop have been retained in the front rank.Burly lock Davis Makori pairs up with international Erick Kerre in place of Simon Muniafu who will come off the wood. It will be an exciting battle of forwards. Nakuru have a decent scrum, they carry the ball reasonably and contest the floor ball aggressively, said Impala Director of Coaching Fred Ollows.FIXTURESSaturdayKCB v Nondescripts (4, KCB Sports Club)Nakuru v Impala Saracens (4pm, Nakuru Athletic Club)Mean Machine v Quins (4pm, UoN)Mwamba v Blak Blad (4pm, Railway Club)Strathmore Leos v Western Bulls (4pm, Madaraka)Homeboyz v Kabras Sugar (4.15pm, Jamhuri Park) email print email print Council to study report by principals before stating the number of affected learners. But FBI says president&#039;s claims are false.