Wiper party leader Kalonzo Musyoka has struck a political deal with leaders of small parties in Ukambani region to solidify his support base and bolster his bid for the Nasa presidential ticket. Mr Musyoka can now rest easy after his long-time political rival Charity Ngilu and other local politicians Mutua Katuku, Wavinya Ndeti who have been opposed to his leadership agreed to rally the Kamba community behind the Wiper leader. In the deal, Mrs Ngilu’s Narc, Ms Ndeti’s Chama Cha Uzalendo and Mr Katuku’s People’s Trust Party will work with the Wiper party leader in pushing the community agenda within the Opposition National Super Alliance. According to Mr Katuku, a former MP for Mwala constituency and an ex-minister in the Kibaki regime, the leaders resolved to push for Mr Musyoka to be the Nasa flag bearer and ensure the Kamba community votes as a block for the Opposition coalition. “We’ve closed ranks on several issues but most importantly we want to ensure our community gets the best deal within Nasa in terms of budget allocations, power sharing and government appointments” Mr Katuku told the Nation in an interview. The deal is also likely to give Mr Musyoka a competitive edge within Nasa politics because he has managed to rally his political base to speak with one voice. The move by the three politicians to throw their weight behind Mr Musyoka’s presidential bid come barely two week after Makueni Governor Kivutha Kibwana ditched his Muungano party which sponsored his election in 2013 for Wiper party. Unlike Governor Kibwana who has ditched his party and decided to seek re-election on Wiper ticket, the other three will maintain their separate party identities and compete fairly for seats in county and national assemblies. “Each of the five parties is free to field candidates for all elective seats except the presidency where we will be rooting for Kalonzo Musyoka or whoever will be picked within the Nasa umbrella” said Mr Katuku.   Leader says aspirants should be free to face one another.