The Teachers Service Commission has intensified a crackdown on head teachers suspected of condoning bullying, with the latest being Maseno School principal Paul Otula, who has been given a warning letter over a claim of indecent assault of a student. A commission official, speaking in confidence, told Saturday Nation on Friday that Mr Otula had been asked to show cause why disciplinary action should not be taken against him regarding bullying in the school. The board chairman, Mr Carrey Orege, had also been asked to conduct fresh investigations on bullying claims. Mr Otula did not answer his phone or respond to text messages. The basis of the disciplinary letter is the findings of a preliminary report by the commission, which confirmed cases of bullying at the school. The most outrageous was a case of Form One student who claimed to have been sodomised by senior students early this year. According to the report, the school did not inform the boy’s parents. They kept him at the sanatorium for a week. The development came days after Mr David Kariuki was forced out as principal of Alliance High School following horrifying student accounts of rampant bullying. READ: Alliance High head retires amid reports of bullying At the same time, six Alliance High School students were on Friday arraigned at Kikuyu law courts for bullying fellow students. Sources indicated that seven members of staff at Alliance boys, including Mr Kariuki, are likely to be prosecuted with criminal negligence. Further, a forensic audit would be conducted over possible corruption and abuse of office. STUDENT COUNSELLINGIn addition, Kiambu police are continuing with investigations and have so far interrogated Mr Kariuki, the deputy principal, a security officer and a nurse over the claims of torture last month that left a student walking on crutches. The school board has since announced a raft of measures aimed at reclaiming the glory of the school. Board chairman Sam Mucheri said fresh investigations had been launched against the school’s deputy principal in charge of discipline. He said the management has put in place measures to ensure that all students in the school are safe. “We want to determine why the deputy principal turned a blind eye to reports of torture of students,” Mr Mucheri said. “We have also demoted 10 prefects who were involved as well as the school captain,” he added saying that it was made clear to the prefects that they have no authority to administer corporal punishment. Mr Mucheri appreciated the support the school had received from the teachers commission and the Ministry of Education in handling the issue. “We have organised counselling session for both students and prefects. We have already two counsellors to start with,” said the chairman. Meanwhile in Bomet, Knut secretary-general Wilson Sossion demanded the reinstatement of the former Alliance principal. Reported by Ouma Wanzala and Geoffrey Rono  