At least eight buses will transport fans from the country to cheer Team Kenya at World Cross Country Championships due next week at the Kololo Independence grounds, Kampala. Athletics Kenya president Jackson Tuwei has said the federation will avail one bus to ferry fans across the boarder, while Nairobi Senator Mike Sonko and former Cabinet Minister Nicholas Biwott will sponsor a bus each to depart from Nairobi County and Elgeyo-Marakwet counties, respectively. Athletics Kenya’s Central Rift branch chairman Abraham Mutai has also offered a bus to carry fans from Uasin Gishu County while the Kenya Prisons Service, courtesy of Deputy Commissioner General of Prisons Benjamin Njoga, have also made available one bus. The Kenya Police Service, along with the Kenya Prisons Service, provide the bulk of the Team Kenya athletes who are currently training at the St Mark’s Teachers Training College in Kigari, Embu County. Kenya Prisons Service athletes include Africa Cross Country and 10,000 metres champion Alice Aprot, who will compete in the 10-kilometre race in Kampala, and Olympic 800 metres bronze medallist Margaret Nyairera who will feature in the newly-introduced mixed relay race. Another bus will transport fans from Nairobi courtesy of Athletics Kenya’s Nairobi branch chairman Barnabas Korir while the federation’s national treasurer David Miano has also made available a bus that will depart from Nyahururu to Kampala. Another well-wisher, who sought anonymity, has provided a bus that will leave for the Ugandan capital from Nyamira County. Tuwei recently appointed a committee to mobilise support for Team Kenya which will be captained by world record holder in the 10km and 15km road races, Patrick Komon. “When Kenya hosted the World Cross Country Championships in Mombasa in 2007, Kenya topped the table with five gold medals. We want to improve this performance in Kampala which is as good as our home. That’s why we are supporting this campaign to rally support for Team Kenya,” said Tuwei. APPEALED FOR SUPPORT The committee has appealed for more individuals and corporates to come on board and ferry more fans for the championships that will be held on Sunday, March 26. “While individuals sponsoring buses have the first option of selecting the fans to take the ride to Kampala, we are appealing to more people and corporates to avail more buses so that we cheer our team to glory in Kampala,” said the committee’s secretary Dominic Ondieki. Ondieki added that they have agreed that fans shall be selected from various regions and institutions, and the list of names, with their ID numbers and contacts, be submitted to the committee by March 17. “This shall give room for making reservations, accreditation, ticketing and other formalities,” the said Ondieki. “Each fan selected should be in possession of the required travel documents, among them national identification documents like identity card or passport and yellow fever certificate.” Besides, Ondieki said the fans should be ready to cater for their meals and accommodation as the sponsored buses will only ferry the fans to and from Kampala with no other provisions. The committee also released the travel itinerary as follows: Convergence at Nairobi - 24th March, 10.00Hrs Departure from Nairobi KICC - 24th March 12.00Hrs Arrival of all buses in Eldoret - 24th March, 2000Hrs Departure of all buses from Eldoret - 24th March, 23.45Hrs Arrival in Kampala Uganda - 25th March 1200Hrs Departure from Kampala - 26th March, 2345Hrs Arrival in Eldoret - 27th March, 1200Hrs   Komon's best individual outing in world cross country running are two silver medals.