Members of County Assembly in Kwale have accused Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho of meddling in the affairs of the county. They urged every governor in Coast region to concentrate on their areas of jurisdiction so as to ensure a peaceful election in August. Led by Ndavaya ward MCA Juma Masudi, the reps allied to Governor Salim Mvurya who left ODM for Jubilee Party, said Governor Joho’s trips "to his colleagues' home turfs" could create tension among residents and spark off violence before or during the polls. Speaking in Mombasa, Mr Masudi - who was accompanied by Kasemeni ward MCA Anthony Yama and some Kwale residents - said that as the polls draw closer, it is imperative that leaders keep the peace. "Governor Joho and Governor Kingi’s (Kilifi) visit to Kwale or other counties is likely to create bad blood among residents of the various counties," Mr Masudi said. They termed the visits as "unnecessary provocation", saying the two governors have been traversing the six counties "when their colleagues have confined themselves to their areas". About the disrupted rally at Kinango, Kwale, on Thursday, the MCA said it was a clear pointer that unfortunate acts can occur if leaders interfere with each other activities. Governor Mvurya denied any involvement in the stoppage of the meeting. READ: Police break up Joho rally Speaking on phone, Mr Mvurya said he does not have the authority to do so since he is neither the county commissioner nor a police officer. "Governor Mvurya is not the county commissioner, OCPD or a member of the security organ. I don’t have power to order the police to stop any rally," he said. A section of ODM leaders from the county had accused Mr Mvurya of having a hand in the disruption of the rallies at Kinango and Msambweni that were to be addressed by Mr Joho, Mr Kingi and Taita Taveta Governor John Mruttu. Still on the matter, Government spokesman Eric Kiraithe said the security team in Kwale acted in the best interest of the public. "As you enjoy propagating the needs of your party, we must all fit in this political space. Respect for human rights, observation of the rule of law and cooperation should prevail," Mr Kiraithe told journalists at Mbaraki Sports Club in Mombasa today. He also said that the media has no responsibility giving publicity to people who want to create instability.  