Harambee Stars were on Thursday held to a 1-1 draw by neighbours Uganda in an international friendly match at Kenyatta Stadium, Machakos. Vipers striker Moses Waiswa came off the bench to score the equaliser for the Cranes just three minutes from time, cancelling out Michael Olunga’s first half opener to ensure the two arch-rivals share the spoils. Harambee Stars coach Stanley Okumbi and his Uganda counterpart Milutin “Micho” Sredojevic both opted to put their faith on local-based players for the match with a few foreign-based players involved. Okumbi allowed six foreign based players in 18-man his squad with captain Victor Wanyama and assistant David Owino out of the squad to give way to fringe players like Samuel Onyango and Robinson Kamura.     The story was the same for Cranes, as coach Micho had only named only eight of the 23 players who represented Uganda in the 2017 Africa Cup of Nations in Gabon. Kenya's persistent attacks led by China-based striker Michael Olunga were matched strength by strength by the enterprising Cranes front line led by KCCA's Geoffrey Sserunkuma.   However, it is the hosts who looked more promising in the first half, and it was no surprise when Olunga found the back of the net in the 35th minute to make up for three clear cut chances that he had squandered earlier on. Olunga received a long pass from goalkeeper Patrick Matasi and beat Uganda’s custodian Benjamin Ochan with a brilliant strike to send the Kenyan faithful in the stands into a frenzy.   Uganda’s captain Hassan Wasswa and KCCA's Sserunkuma, who has scored 17 goals in all competitions so far this season, had chances for Uganda in that first half but could not find the target. Moses Waiswa was introduced for KCCA midfielder Muzamiru Mutyaba in the 80th minute, and this proved to be the missing link for Micho’s charges as the Vipers man grabbed a late equaliser to leave the Kenyans stunned.   The 24-year-old received a cross from Emmanuel Okwi and planted it to the far post after making a delightful turn with three minutes left on the clock.   An angry Okumbi rapped his charges from the touchline demanding more concentration from his defenders now that Cranes were playing with renewed inspiration. "We have to work on goal-scoring. We have been a little untidy on that front and we shall draft another plan for the next match on Sunday,” said Okumbi. "I am not happy with this result. This is a match we should have scored many goals especially considering the number of chances we had.”  