Resolution Impala Saracens director of coaching Fred Ollows believes that his side has what it takes to bounce back from Nakuru’s defeat and claim maximum points against Kenya Commercial Bank when the two sides meet on Saturday in the Kenya Cup. The Sarries lost to hosts Nakuru 21-17 in a pulsating duel last weekend but got a vital bonus point that pushed them one place to fourth in the league with 46 points. After their duel with KCB, there will be no reprieve for the wounded Sarries as the face champions Kabras will be next on line in the penultimate stage of the regular season before closing with Blak Blad. Ollows acknowledged that a slow start to the game cost them as Nakuru cashed in on home ground advantage to lead 14-3 at half time before exacting revenge on the Sarries who beat them 28-15 last season. “It was a good game but we started slowly and Nakuru utilised their opportunities to score,” said Ollows. “We improved after some changes in the second half and in fact the match ended when we were pressing the line from the scrum-down.” Despite the defeat, Ollows said the bonus point was important as it enabled them scale in the league standing. “It’s vital at this time when we only remain with three matches for the regular season to end, paving way for top six play-off,” said Ollows, adding that their plan is to secure an automatic place in the semi-finals by winning all their remaining matches. Impala head into their duel with KCB enjoying a three-match winning streak against the Lions. Last season, Impala were a sight to behold, having beaten the bankers in the regular Kenya Cup season 19-15 before running away victors 8-7 in the semi-finals. However, Impala would hand Kabras Sugar their maiden Kenya Cup title, losing 22-5 in the final. Impala and KCB last met at the Impala Floodlit final in October last year where the Sarries triumphed 33-32. Last Saturday was one of the most exciting outings with closely fight battles in most matches. KCB beat Nondescripts 27-8 to stay at the top with 55 points. Homeboyz secured a bonus point victory when they edged out Kabras Sugar 34-22 in Nairobi. The victory saw the Deejays tie with Kenya Harlequin on 54 points. Quins, who beat Mean Machine 17-15, stayed second on better aggregate as Paul Murunga’s Homeboyz side stayed third.  