ODM top guns at the Coast took their campaigns to consolidate the party's support in the region to Tana River County where they ramped up their criticism of the Jubilee government. Governors Hassan Joho (Mombasa), Amason Kingi (Kilifi) and John Mruttu (Taita Taveta) said President Uhuru Kenyatta has sidelined Coast region in development and failed Kenyans entirely; thus should be rejected in August. Governor Joho also stated that he will only respect President Kenyatta if he reciprocates. On President Kenyatta's directive that he should stop shadowing him, Mr Joho told a rally in Garsen that the Head of State is not a woman to be followed. "I am not a street urchin...I was elected by the people of Mombasa..I will not stop raising issues affecting locals. If you respect me I will respect you," he said before leading the crowd in shouting that President Kenyatta and Mr Ruto should be sent packing in August. "I cannot keep on following a fellow man. Where should I go. There are people here whom I could follow." Just like in 2013, most Coast residents will overwhelmingly vote for the Opposition, the governors said. They were backed by Kilifi Senator Stewart Madzayo and MPs Rashid Bedzimba (Kisauni), Badi Twalib (Jomvu), Mishi Mboko (Mombasa Woman rep), Abdulswamad Shariff Nassir (Mvita), and Thomas Mwadeghu (Wundanyi). Instead, they said the residents would vote for Mr Raila Odinga as president so that he may transform and unite the country. The leaders, who are key Opposition defenders in region, urged locals to only vote for ODM candidates in a six-piece style to strengthen the outfit. They said Garsen and Hola are ODM turfs and that leaders in the two constituencies who had defected to Jubilee Party hold no sway over the inhabitants. Last week, Tana River Governor Hussein Dado, Senator Ali Bule and Woman rep Halima Ware jumped ship from Wiper Democratic Movement to JP. READ: Tana River Wiper defectors tell off Kalonzo Musyoka The meetings were also used to endorse Mr Joho as Coast spokesman, representative and top most leader. Speakers lobbied for Mr Joho to be President in 2022 and hailed him for standing for locals' rights. He (Joho) said Mr Odinga will pave the way for them in 2022. Mr Mwadeghu, who is also ODM chief whip, said Coast residents will not take it lying down if anything happens to Mr Joho. "They can clear his bank accounts but should not harm him," he said. BANK ACCOUNT Mr Joho said although he had been prevented from attending President Kenyatta's launch of Mtongwe ferry, his "mouth had not been shut". "Current coast leaders are not those of the past. I will continue telling them the truth," he said. He said the Galana ranch, which he claimed was grabbed, must be returned to the locals. Mr Joho added that Mr Kenyatta's threats on him were futile and that he does not fear death because he believes in God. He alleged that he was contacted by officials of where he banks, who said Kenya Revenue Authority wanted his accounts looked into. "I will not be cowed. They can take all the money in my bank accounts," he said. He said the alleged probe is meant to intimidate him and stop him from keeping the government on its toes. He accused the Head of State of delaying work on Garsen-Witu-Lamu road. He challenged President Kenyatta to prove that his county government had been given Sh40bn since 2013. The county boss said only Sh16 billion was received. His Kilifi counterpart Amason Kingi, claimed the national government had initiated no development projects in Tana River. He said the ruling administration should not be voted in again. On his part, Governor Mruttu called for peaceful campaigns and condemned an incident where an ODM rally in Mpeketoni on Saturday was disrupted. READ: Jubilee Party supporters disrupt ODM rally He termed Mr Joho as "Coast's Sultan", a leadership role he said would help him seek presidency in 2022. The leaders will tour all the sub-counties highlighting issues such as hunger and unemployment, which they accuse the Mr Kenyatta government of failing to address.  