Nairobi County government will spend more to pay its workers in the next financial year. In an ambitious Sh35.9 billion budget, the county factored in Sh800 million to cater for a collective bargaining agreement (CBA) the county signed with the Kenya County Government Workers Union. Another Sh252 million will be used to pay an additional 600 City askaris. The County has also set aside Sh24 billion for recurrent expenditure with Sh15 billion (43 per cent of the total revenue) meant for salaries while Sh11.8 billion has been set aside for development. Speaking during a public participation forum on Monday, the county executive of finance Gregory Mwakanongo said that the county is struggling with a bloated workforce and targets to reduce the numbers by ensuring there is voluntary retirement for those of age. Consequently, the county will undertake payroll cleaning, adoption of technology, limit employment, motivate early retirement by offering sendoff packages and proper and efficient management of hiring effective casual workers to curb the rising wage bill, Mr Mwakanongo said. The county has also decided not to raise any rates and fees payable but instead will work on enhancing the internal revenue collection as it targets to raise about Sh20 billion. It expects to raise Sh5.5 billion from land rates, Sh3.5 billion from parking fees, Sh3.63 billion from single business permits, building permits Sh1.7 billion, outdoor advertising Sh1.2 billion and another Sh3.47 billion from other sources. The county also expects to raise Sh15.7 billion from external sources. Equitable share is projected at Sh14.96 billion. Speaking in the same forum the County Assembly budget committee chairman Michael Ogada said that the county will focus on completing ongoing projects initiated in previous financial years. The health department will get Sh6.99 while the Office of the Governor will Sh5.69 billion and finance and economic planning will get Sh3.83 billion. Agriculture, livestock and fisheries will get Sh529 million, Environment, Water, Energy and Natural resources Sh2.28 billion, Urban Renewal and Housing Sh320 million Ward Development Projects Sh1.17 billion and Sh90 million has been set aside for emergency kit. However, a resident Mugo Karanja, raised concern over the money set aside for purchase of more vehicles stating that it was exorbitant for the county to allocate Sh141.6 million for four double cabin vehicles as pool vehicles and 22 vehicles and three breakdowns for enforcement services. In the estimates, Sh100 will be used by the Governor’s office to fuel its vehicles. For the County Assembly, it has decreased its budget by Sh87.9million citing reduction of salaries for members after August elections.  