Coast Regional Coordinator Nelson Marwa has ordered for the removal of controversial mobile clinics lying at the National Youth Service camp in Miritini, Mombasa. Mr Marwa said the clinics at the centre of the Sh5 billion Afya House scandal should be removed to pave way for the building a rehabilitation centre for drugs addicts. Speaking to journalists Friday at the camp, Mr Marwa said the clinics should be moved from next week. “I don’t want to see these containers here. Only two of them should remain to be used here once the rehabilitation is complete. “I don’t want to know where the owner will take them. In fact I do not even know how they were brought here,” said Mr Marwa. The 99 mobile clinics have been lying at the NYS yard in Miritini since 2016 after they were imported from China. The fully equipped 40-foot container clinics imported by Estama Investments Limited were stored there awaiting distribution. COURT CASE There has been a court case in Nairobi between Estama and the Kenya Revenue Authority. In January, KRA said Estama had not paid taxes on the Sh800 million it was paid for supplying the mobile clinics. Thursday, Mr Marwa said he was not interested in knowing what was going on but “wants space at the yard.” “I do not know about those other stories. I have just ordered the commander to ensure these things are removed from here. What I want here is space so that we can plan and this facility used,” said Mr Marwa. He said a perimeter wall for the rehab centre will be complete by Monday. Once complete, the rehab centre is to be inaugurated by President Uhuru Kenyatta who ordered it built. “The war on drugs is still on. The government is focusing on disruption of supply and demand of drugs. When this facility will be officially inaugurated you will see the addicts who will be brought in here for rehabilitation,” said Mr Marwa. He said the centre will serve about 1,500 drug addicts from the Coast. He further said the government is determined to make the centre an "international one.” It will be a state-of-the-art facility which will enable addicts acquire technical skills once rehabilitated.   Marwa says there will be good progress at the rehab centre by March.