Alliance High School emerged from the recent bullying scandal to become the number one school in the Central Region Secondary Schools Drama Festival with their play, Finding Kamakozi. The five-day drama fete was held at Kiburia Girls’ High School in Kirinyaga County and attracted a huge audience with thrilling items on show. Alliance High School and other winners will now represent the region during the Kenya Schools and Colleges National Drama Festival in Kisumu next month. The Central region is renowned for strong  productions in play category and authentic cultural dances. Kianyaga Boys High School were second, while OLC Mugoiri Girls High School were third. Karima Girls High School were fourth and Njiris High School came fifth. Njiris High School will proceed to the nationals with their Kiswahili play Abaden Kataa produced by DC Kamau, the school principal. In the choral verse category  the winners were Tumutumu Girls High school, followed by  Ng’araria Girls. The stand up comedy category is new genre and is yet to attract quality jokes and quality performances. DOCTORS STRIKE A play by Karima Girls High School, The Cartoonist,  caught the audience’s attention. The play is set in the background of the recent doctors’ strike action. St Ann Gituba High School from the host county stole the show with their winning authentic Gikuyu cultural creative dance. The dance highlighted the plight of the less privileged in the society where a blind child facing paternal rejection beats all the odds to be a doctor. In Nairobi, Lenana School are the winners in the play category. They were followed by St Georges Girls’ High School.  Riara Girls’ High School were third. They three will represents Nairobi region during the national drama festival in April 8, in Kisumu City. The dance was choreographed by Esther Ngatia, the school principal. Heneffer Nyambura playing accordion, soloist Joan Susan Wanjira were well received by the audience. Kangubiri Girls High School were second ‘’Karimi; and Muthua-ini Secondary were third. Kiambu County had the wining oral narrative by Kijabe Boys.   Top performers aim for a slot in national contest as regions hold drama festivals.