Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero has dared the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) to make true its threat of barring him from defending his seat during the August polls. The anti-graft agency plans to have all governors and county assembly officials implicated in corruption cases locked out of the August General Election. Dr Kidero, one of the county bosses targeted by the anti-graft commission over integrity issues, spoke at St Mary`s Primary School in Karen, where he opened new classrooms on Wednesday. The Nairobi governor challenged the EACC to explain to contestants what Constitution and election laws they are using against those they claim to have integrity issues. “I do not know what the EACC is talking about, let them tell us what the law they are using," said Dr Kidero on Wednesday. The governor, however, blamed the Jubilee Party of trying to come up with all manner of tactics to ensure he does not clinch the governor's seat. READ: Anti-graft team pushing to have governors locked out of polls Dr Kidero, who said that he does not have any ongoing cases at the EACC, clarified that all audit queries against him have been cleared by the National Assembly and Senate. Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula trashed EACC threats and dared them to lock out governor Kidero from taking part in the August polls. Mr Wetang'ula said that no law allows the EACC to clear politicians who have shown interest in vying for political seats. Mr Wetang'ula added that the Constitution does not have provisions of barring any person from contesting for political seats just because they have been told to account for public funds. NOT UNDER INVESTIGATIONS Meanwhile, Murang’a Governor Mwangi Wa Iria has accused the EACC of malice and witch-hunt. Mr Wa Iria said he is not under any investigation by the EACC. He said he took the anti-graft commission to court for accusing him of giving false declaration during the 2013 polls and won after Justice Mumbi Ngugi said in her judgement that the anti-graft body was driven by malicious motives. The Murang'a County boss alleged that his woes were as a result of political vendetta fuelled by a few politicians from the county. ‘I know where all this is coming from, we shall not sit and watch as EACC is used by political opponents to malign my name,” he said. "They (opponents) are trying to bring me down by tainting my record in Murang’a with unfounded allegations, my work speaks for itself,” he added. Apart from Mr Wa Iria, also targeted include governors Evans Kidero (Nairobi), Alfred Mutua (Machakos), Adhi Godana (Isiolo), Adam Nathif (Garissa), Sospeter Ojaamong (Busia) and all of whom have been interviewed by EACC. EACC said investigations into procurement issues, crooked employment and loss of funds are already at an advanced stage in Nairobi, Migori, Siaya, Busia, Murang’a, Nyamira and Kilifi counties.   EACC opens investigations targeting most counties.