Women in Mombasa have threatened to demonstrate while naked over claims of mistreatment of deputy Governor Hazel Katana by county officials. They staged a demonstration at Uhuru Gardens and said that since Ms Katana's defection from ODM to Jubilee Party, the deputy county boss has been undermined, intimidated and harassed. Ms Fatuma Atemi, one of the protesters, urged male politicians to respect their female counterparts. "We will strip naked and demonstrate in the streets if the deputy governor is disrespected and demeaned again. Let it be the last time. She is not alone. We are with her," she said. Ms Aisha Mwidani, another protester, claimed furniture from Ms Katana's office was removed by county officials so that she could be implicated with robbery. "We have boycotted Friday prayers and we have asked God for forgiveness because of the humiliation Ms Katana endures. She is really suffering," Ms Mwidani said. However, speaking after attending the launch of a peace initiative at the Holy Ghost Cathedral in Mombasa, Ms Katana dismissed the theft allegations and also said her staff were also unaware of the incident. Two people were caught loading property into a pickup on Wednesday night. But they were released by police after no complainant was recorded. "Our officers released the two on cash bail pending further investigations. Our interest is to establish whether there was theft or not," Urban OCPD Lucas Ogara said on Thursday. Still on the same, the county's director of communications Richard Chacha said police officers are investigating the matter. "...on the issue of furniture, the protesters should establish the truth instead of rushing to the street because the issue cannot be solved there. "We are wondering why the furniture was being taken away after working hours by individuals who are not employees of the county. "Answers will be provided by the owner of the car and people who were arrested," he said. Ms Katana left the Raila Odinga-led party because, she said, Governor Hassan Joho was mistreating her. READ: Joho to blame for my defection to Jubilee She will contend for the region's senatorial post.  