Cabinet Secretary, Public Service, Youth and Gender Affairs, Sicily Kariuki, on Friday cautioned politicians against injecting politics into the National Youth Service (NYS) program. Ms Kariuki who spoke during the official launch of the NYS programme in Port Victoria, Budalangi said the government is committed to empowering the youth through the initiative whose stability is seen as a solution to a more prosperous future for the country. She however called on young people to avoid being exploited by politicians with vested interests. “When we started this program we faced a lot of challenges especially from politicians. I want reiterate that that this is a National Government initiative and it is not for political purposes. “I call upon you youths to stand up and defend it as your project,” she told over 900 cohorts assembled at Budiera grounds. Ms Kariuki disclosed that the program was currently in 107 constituencies and the ministry was keen to pushing it to all 290 constituencies. She singled out the Youth Empowerment Programme which had transformed the lives across the country. “I am disappointed that here in Budalangi only Sh17million has been utilized by different groups against an amount of Sh11billion across the country. “We have enlisted over 106,000 youths nationwide, with savings amounting to over 1.6 billion through their SACCOs. Please take advantage of this program. “The success stories we have received from your colleagues elsewhere is a true indicator that this program is beneficial and i ask you to embrace and defend it.” The programme which will last a minimum of six month will also see the cohorts engage in environmental management interventions, water pans and borehole drilling and road expansion. She said members will be able to access savings and called on the youth to use it to open businesses as a form of empowerment. The CS also issued out a check of Sh5.4 million to different women groups. Area MP Ababu Namwamba called for employment of more youths in the constituency, adding that they are ready to make it permanent in the region. “The people of Budalangi have a rich history with NYS. Flood mitigation efforts have been spearheaded in this region through this program. “At some point we had even offered you a permanent place here in Budalangi. On behalf of the people of this region i ask you reconsider our earlier request to have permanent service centre and CDF is ready to offer land.”  