Former Law Society of Kenya Chief Executive Apollo Mboya was on Friday involved in a scuffle with a security guard at Kibera Law Courts in Nairobi. The female guard claims she sustained injuries on her leg during the 8am incident as Mr Mboya allegedly forced his way through the court's main gate. SUMMONS The guard claims she had just opened the gate for a prosecutor to drive in when Mr Mboya arrived in his car. The woman said she informed the lawyer that only court officials are allowed to park inside the court's premises but he dismissed her. She alleges Mr Mboya jumped out of his car and pushed the gate, a move that saw her fall down. "He then got back to his car and drove inside while hurling nasty words at me," the guard told the Nation. A court official summoned Mr Mboya to her chambers to sort out the issue and the lawyer is said to accused the guard "of being old school". "The guard identified by one name Muthoni of Lavington Security was advised to report the incident at Kilimani Police Station," the court official told the Nation. OFFICER But according to Mr Mboya, the guard wanted to block him from running official business in Court 6. In a Twitter post, he said he had gone to deliver a complaint against an investigation officer based at Kilimani Police Station, a Mr Mbuvi, who is accused of dragging feet in the investigation of a Sh18 million theft case. The officer has allegedly failed to take witness statements, including those of 12 beneficiaries of the stolen money, to frustrate the case. "@dkmaraga how can an investigation officer organise guards @Kibera Court to prevent a Counsel from indicating him in court?" Mr Mboya tweeted to Chief Justice David Maraga. “@dkmaraga advocates are officers of the court and can't be prevented from entering court Kibera court premises." PHOTOS Mr Mboya told the Nation that the guard refused to let his car in, saying they “don’t entertain lawyers in the premises”. Upon entering, he claims, a judicial officer blocked his car. “@dkmaraga a court officer should not be allowed to take law in their hands and block advocates cars parked within the court premises,” he shot another tweet to CJ Maraga. The lawyer took photos of the alleged obstruction and posted them on Twitter.  