A high-powered delegation from the International Association of Athletics Federation (IAAF) is expected in Nairobi to inspect the World Under-18 Championships facilities after the conclusion of the World Cross Country Championships in Kampala. Chief Executive Officer of the event’s Local Organising Committee, Mwangi Muthee, on Friday disclosed that the tour, planned for March 27, will involve six key officials led by Carlo di Angeli, the IAAF Head of Events Operations. The World Cross Country Championships will be held on March 26 at Kololo grounds, Kampala while the World Under-18 Championships are due from July 12 to 16 at Moi International Sports Centre, Kasarani. The IAAF delegation will inspect competition and warm-up venues at Kasarani, the accommodation and training facilities at the Athletes Village at Kenyatta University and hotels that will host IAAF family, technical officials and the media. The officials accompanying Di Angeli are IAAF’s Event Organisation Manager Tony Jorba, Head of Team Services Monica Gomez Fernandez and Frederic Sanchez from Broadcasting division. Also in the entourage will be Jee Isram who is IAAF’s Head of Protocal and Fann Boquillet, who is in charge of Promotion and Ticketing. Mwangi said in a statement that LOC had benefited immensely from previous visits by IAAF delegations, adding that it had worked on all aspects of Nairobi’s preparedness towards hosting the youth competition. Muthee noted that the past few weeks, Kenya’s preparedness has gone a notch higher with most arms of the government getting involved. “Infrastructure upgrading at the competition venue, Athletes Village and upgrading of other relevant facilities has picked up pace. The contractors are working diligently to finish everything ahead of schedule,” said Muthee. Mondo Sport and Flooring Company will lay tartan track on the venues. “Many final decisions on how work on the facilities need to conclude will be made at a consultative meeting between LOC and IAAF during the visit,” said Muthee.   Sanchez was in the country for two weeks in January.