Seven women and four children were shot dead by bandits in Mukutani, Baringo on Tuesday in two of the deadliest attacks in more than a month. The killings occured despite hundreds of police officers and Kenya police reservists patrolling the area with firm instructions to shoot and kill any bandit. Tiaty Sub-county where the killings took place is among the 19 gazetted as “disturbed and dangerous” by Interior Cabinet Secretary Joseph Nkaissery. Deputy President William Ruto has visited the county three times in the last 30 days to try to boost efforts to restore peace but the latest attacks are a big setback to his attempts. Three weeks ago, he ordered the security officers posted to the area to shoot-to-kill bandits on sight. So far, no bandit has been arrested or killed yet they continue to terrorise residents. On Tuesday morning, suspected Ilchamus bandits ambushed and fired at a police vehicle in Mukutani killing two women. They were heading to Kabarnet town to collect cash for the orphans from a local bank. A child escaped the attack. ASKED FOR A LIFT Baringo County Police Commandant Peter Ndung’u said the two women had asked for a lift in the police vehicle. “Ilchamus bandits raided Koimut village near Karau area in the morning and made away with unknown number of livestock. The Pokot, however, pursued the livestock and they were ambushed by the bandits and in the process the police vehicle was caught in the cross fire killing the two,” said Mr Nd’ungu. After the attack, residents camping at Mukutani Primary School are said to have raised fears of an impending retaliatory attack by the Pokot but the intelligence was not acted on fast enough. At 5pm on Tuesday, dozens of bandits attacked the village killing children and women camping at the school. They were staying in the school after they were displaced from their homes by bandits. The bandits seriously injured another four, three children and an adult according to the Red Cross. They were taken to Marigat Sub-County Hospital and then transferred to Nakuru with gunshot injuries on the head and the chest. WRITHING IN PAIN The children were writhing in pain and waited for more than 12 hours before they were rescued by the humanitarian organisation. “One child had a severe injury on the head and another in the stomach, having been hit with two bullets. The other child was shot in the bottom while the adult male was shot in the stomach,” said Red Cross Secretary-General Abbas Gullet in a statement. Over 300 pupils were transferred from the school last night and taken to Eldume Primary School in Marigat, according to Rift Valley Regional Coordinator Wanyama Musiambo. The Ilchamus spokesman, Amos Olempaka, told Nation that they had informed the police of the impending attack after the women were killed in the morningMr Olempaka said: “We are blaming the police for taking a long time to respond yet the area is under operation,” he said. In a separate incident at Kiserian, four herders were ambushed and shot dead by armed bandits at Kiserian in Baringo South Sub-county. This brings the number of people killed within 12 hours to 15. Other areas considered dangerous in the region are Arabal, Kiserian, Mochongoi, Rugus, Chebinyiny, Komolion, Chepkalacha, Makutano, Paka, Orus, Loiywat, Siale, Nando, Tangulbei, Chepkerer   Child survives attack as officers are caught in Pokot-Ilchamus crossfire in Tiaty, Baringo.