When Skastina Majani was interdicted, I vividly remember her words: “I will be back”. I took it as mere consolation but although I secretly wished that she does not return so that I could take over her job, I empathised with her and told her that I looked forward to working with her again. For those who have forgotten who Skastina is, that is the National ID name of Bensouda, the Female Headmistress of Mwisho wa Lami Primary School. Now you remember her? Well she came back! It might have been just a visit but yes, Bensouda came back. Although she sounded bullish at the time of her suspension, deep down, I knew she was quite worried. I did not know much about her but I knew she was servicing a car loan among other financial constraints and the interdiction must have hit her hard. And although she publicly bragged about how she would return, she silently feared losing her job. I remember a week after her suspension I sent her an SMS to encourage her and to tell her how I looked forward to working with her once more. “Stop playing with my feelings. I know you are happy I am out but Kama unafikiria utapata hiyo kazi, ng’oo,” she fired. She was right, I initially thought that I would take over her position but once they brought Catherine, it did not matter any more, and I now supported Bensouda’s return, especially considering how Catherine and I related in the initial days. A week later, Bensouda went to Nairobi to sort her case and knowing how Bensouda is connected at TSC, I did not expect her to come back empty handed. But nothing really came through. Until last week. On Tuesday morning, the red, brand new Nissan Unny, arrived at school, driven by Bensouda herself. It parked under the mango tree and Bensouda, in a beautiful red dress, came out of the car, and majestically walked to the staffroom. Needless to say, the whole school came to a standstill. It was around 9am. Bensouda walked to the staffroom and sat on one of the chairs. I was in class at the time and could not wait for my lesson to end to go see her. I left 10 minutes earlier than normal. “Dre!” she called and hugged me. It was a clumsy hug. Although I had hugged Bensouda many times in private, this was the first time I was hugging her in public. And I must admit that I am not very good with hugs. “How are things?” she asked me. “They are well,” I said, although other teachers looked at me in a manner likely to suggest that I wasn’t telling the truth. “Things are good on Dre’s side, only,” said Kuya. “As for some of us, we are orphans without you here.” “Don’t worry, and don’t call yourself orphan anymore,” Bensouda told Kuya. “Very good, does it mean that you are back?” Kuya asked excitedly. “No, not yet, I just came to visit,” she said, with a cheeky smile on her face. “We can’t wait for you to return,” said Mrs Atika. “This school is not what it used to be when you were here.” “Ah Mrs Atika, the way you hated me when I was the HM here?” wondered Bensouda. Just then Saphire arrived. He was quite happy to see Bensouda. He had reasons to. Despite his behaviour of not being in school regularly, it was only under Bensouda that he had not been interdicted. He had previously served interdiction under all other HMs, and was facing one after Catherine had taken up his absenteeism issue with the authorities. “Tell me you are back,” Saphire said as he came in. “This place needs you back,” he added. “You are in school today?” she asked. “That’s an improvement!” said Bensouda. Several teachers went into small private conversations with Bensouda. While I also wanted to, I was worried about what would happen if Catherine arrived and found me talking to Bensouda. She may take it as insubordination. A few minutes later, Rasto and Nyayo arrived. Rasto is the chairman of the School Board while Nyayo is a member. Bensouda greeted them heartily when they arrived. “Happy to see you,” she said. “We miss you,” said Rasto. “Tangu utoke tumekua na meeting moja pekee,” he added. “Uliza huyu Catherina anataka tukule wapi?” “Uongo,” said Bensouda. They then left the staffroom and went to sit under the mango tree, next to Bensouda’s car. They had not sat for long when Catherine arrived. She was on a boda boda motorcycle. I immediately went to class on seeing Catherine, keen not to be associated with Bensouda. Catherine went to her office directly, and locked herself in. Bensouda continued with the meeting with Rasto and Nyayo. Saphire and Alfayo, another board member, joined. Catherine, unable to take it any more, stormed the meeting under the mango tree. “What are you people discussing here?” she asked “How is it your business when we discuss?” Bensouda asked her, speaking aloud to attract the attention of everyone. Although I was in class trying to impart some Swahili knowledge, my eyes, ears and mind were out there. “I am the headmistress of this school and you cannot meet my board in my absence,” said Catherine. “This is not a board meeting,” she said. “This is just a meeting with some of the friends I made while I was HM of this school that you are now destroying.” “I don’t care if they are your friends or not,” said Catherine, getting angry and loud. “Please go meet outside the school compound.” “This is a public property young lady,” said Bensouda. “This is not you private land and we can meet here anytime we want with whoever we want.” “I am the headmistress of the school and I decide who comes and who stays,” said Catherine, although you could clearly see that she was cornered. “And since you are under investigations, you are not allowed in this school.” “Who told you I’m under investigation?” asked Bensouda, arms akimbo. “For your information, the investigation was completed long ago. Please be ready to vacate that seat that you are warming for me,” answered Bensouda. At this point I felt obliged to go stop the argument. I went and calmly talked to Catherine, and convinced her to go back to her office, which she did, but amid swearing: “Leo atajua mimi ni nani. Leo analala cell!” I went back to try and cool Bensouda down, but she sent me away, with toxic words. “I see she is your best friend,” said Bensouda. “Start looking for another school before I return.” She then left with her people, and shortly after Catherine left. The next day she told me she had left for Nairobi to sort some issues and asked me to take care of school matters. I am not supporting any of them to be confirmed as headmistress. All I would like to happen is for the two to clash so badly that I will be appointed headmaster. And all I will do is to ensure they do not see eye to eye!   mwalimuandrew@gmail.comwww.facebook.com/mwisho-walami  