Friday’s front-page picture of a six-year old girl lying numb at a Nakuru hospital graphically captured the human suffering and anguish arising from the endless violence in Baringo. She was among the latest casualties of the deadly inter-ethnic violence that has claimed lives and maimed many. This week, at least 11 people were reported to have been killed by marauding gangs, who seem to have overwhelmed the large troops of security teams sent to the area last month. Baringo and other volatile counties of West Pokot, Turkana and Laikipia are increasingly becoming ungovernable. Armed gangsters have taken control of the regions and unleash terror at will. Primarily, the attacks are framed as conflicts between neighbouring ethnic groups over animals, pasture and water. But this is not the case. These are properly organised and well-oiled conflicts funded and supported by highly placed people in politics and government. The attacks are methodical and directed to inflict maximum pain. The frequency and ferocity is devastating. Such does not relate to ordinary cattle raids or spontaneous contestations over pasture and water. Independent investigation especially by the civil society has squarely fingered politicians as the cause of the conflicts. A number of them are conflicted and ought to be investigated. Regrettably, little has been done to interrogate and seize the suspects. What is even more upsetting is that the government has mounted a heavy security operation in the region to flush out the gangs but we are yet to see results. None other than Deputy President William Ruto has visited the conflict-ravaged areas several times recently and issued a shoot-to-kill order to the police to contain the gangs. All these have not made a difference. The government must change tack; it requires a more aggressive and well-thought out strategy to rein in the gangs and guarantee lasting stability. At least President Uhuru Kenyatta deployed the military to that region on Friday. But thorough investigation must be conducted to seize and punish the masters of the violence. A whole region cannot be taken hostage by outlaws yet we have a government that has committed itself to providing security to all.  