A 23-year-old student has won the highest amount by a woman in SportPesa gaming by clinching a Sh31 million bonus pay-out. Quinter Nimo, 23, a student at the Eldoret College of Professional Skills’s Kapsokwony Town campus in Mt Elgon Sub-county won a bonus pay-out of Sh31,002,159 after predicting correctly the outcome of 16 of 17 games. The mother of two sons from Masindet village in Mt Elgon became the biggest female winner after a businesswoman Elimah Khanaitsa won Sh22 million in January last year. Nimo was celebrating Wednesday together with Julius Kerich, who works as a security guard in Kericho County, who also struck a Sh31,002,159 pay day. She wants to use part of the money to pay her college fees and later open a business. “I’m undertaking a course in supply management chain and I will continue with my studies up to the end. Getting this money won’t change my attitude,” she said. “I’m very happy for having won this amount. The first time I won Sh11,000 in early January,” she said. “I only placed Sh100 last Sunday and I’m calling on other Kenyans to keep on trying their luck may come soon,” she said after receiving her cheque’s from SportPesa’s Esther Kang’ethe in Kapsokwony. “We are delighted to impact positively to all our esteemed customers to change their lives,” Kang’ethe, SportPesa’s deputy manager in charge of public relations and advertising, said. Kerich was let down by his prediction of the Wigan versus Bristol City match which was played last Saturday and ended 1-0 in favour of Bristol City, and not his prediction of a home win for Wigan. SportPesa’s chief marketing officer Kester Shimonyo congratulated the two for their win, urging them to spend wisely. “We are delighted to change the lives of these two esteemed clients for the better. They can now improve their standards of living with their millions,” he said. The SportPesa Mega Jackpot has since risen to Sh195,705,068 this week, a record amount in the history of Kenya’s gaming and lottery industry. On the other hand, the mid week jackpot currently stands at Sh55,816,184 and is yet to be won since last November when electronics shop proprietor Shadrack Kitur took home Sh22,842,642.  