Deputy President (DP) William Ruto on Saturday said the Jubilee Party would win the August elections by a landslide and that they are facing an opposition that is “clueless”. Speaking at Mwachon in Eldama-Ravine Sub-County when he launched the Rift Valley Innovation Centre, the DP hit out at the opposition, saying most of them do not have anything to show despite being in government for many years. Mr Ruto said that National Super Alliance (Nasa) co-principals Kalonzo Musyoka, Raila Odinga, Moses Wetang’ula and Musalia Mudavadi had been in government for many years yet had nothing to show for it. “Jubilee is ready to continue with its development agenda instead of mere stories. I urge you to avoid leaders out to use abusive language to divide you. They have eyes but they can’t see. They have ears but they can’t hear,” he said. In the afternoon, he addressed a rally in Eldama Ravine town where he continued his criticism of the opposition. Amid cheers, Mr Ruto said unlike 2013, the Jubilee Party would face “weak and confused challengers.” He said: “In 2013, we faced a formidable opponent in a sitting Prime Minister and a sitting Vice-President but today we face a clueless, leaderless and disorganised opposition”. BE CAUTIOUS He urged Kenyans to be cautious about who they vote for, saying they should pick development-oriented people. “Some leaders might be good in spreading propaganda and cheap politicking but fail to deliver on the promises they made to Kenyans,” he said. Mr Ruto told opponents that the Jubilee Party had a plan that would see them win the 2017 and 2022 polls by a landslide. “The Jubilee government has focused on improving the economic livelihoods of the residents here. We will continue collaborating with your leaders,” the DP said. He chided the opposition for failing to agree on a presidential candidate despite promising to do so several times before. “Nasa are in their own world because they have short-term programmes. I’m not surprised that Raila Odinga does not even have a one-week plan,” said Mr Ruto. On IEBC, he said the body should be left to perform its role without interference. But the rally in Eldama-Ravine almost turned chaotic after Governor Benjamin Cheboi and MP Moses Lessonet were heckled.  