Eldoret National Polytechnic retained women s football title for the sixth time as the curtain came down on Kenya Technical Institutions Sports Association (Ketisa) Term One Games in Eldoret Town on Sunday.Eldoret beat newcomers Sigalagala Technical Training Institute 1-0 in a hotly-contested match played at the Eldoret National Polytechnic grounds on Sunday evening.The hosts, enjoying huge support from their fans, overwhelmed their opponents in the first half that was largely a one-sided affair. However, Sigalagala threatened the hosts in the dying ten minutes of the first half but the defending champions countered the attacks to regain control of the match going into half-time.Upon resumption, Sigalagala piled pressure and attempted several shots on target but Eldoret goalkeeper Zeda Odero thwarted their efforts.MISSED SCORING CHANCERed-hot Topista Situma of Eldoret Polytechnic missed a scoring chance in the 58th minute of their match after she looped the ball past Sigalagala goalkeeper into the left bottom corner of the goal.However, Situma was on the mark again in the 63rd minute, sending a solid shot into the Sigalagala net for the all-important goal, sending the fans into a frenzy.To advance to the finals, Eldoret thrashed National Industrial Training Authority 7-0 while Sigalagala defeated NYS Engineering Institute 4-0.Eldoret coach Odindo Agwaro lauded his side for working hard to capture the title a record six times in a row. I m very happy for my team to have won the title. Our plan worked well. Before the match, I instructed my players to be team players in the field and as you can see the coordination they had played to our favour, Agwaro said on Monday. We have now retained the trophy for a sixth consecutive win, Mr Agwaro told Nation Sport after the match.SEVENS RUGBYIn men s sevens rugby matches, defending champions Kisumu Polytechnic failed to live to their billing as they faded off in the preliminaries.Newcomers Sigalagala Technical Training Institute emerged winners after whipping Kenya Institute of Mass Communication 19-7 in the final.Sigalagala Technical Training Institute qualified for the final after narrowly beating hosts Eldoret National Polytechnic 5-0, while Kenya Institute of Mass Communication ran over East Africa School of Aviation 17-7 in the second semi-final match to advance to the final.Ketisa secretary-general Patrick Ngana said the new teams which competed in this year s games, among them Sigalagala, proved competitive in the games. I thank new teams which competed in the tournament for the first time. They gave the others a run for their money. The competition is improving each edition and the membership growing, Ngana said. email print email print Budget Director Geoffrey Mwau touts a growing middle class and robust consumer spending. Alex Mutungi Mutuku, linked to theft at the tax agency, is battling to be freed on bond.