The Global Mangrove Alliance announced an initiative to increase mangrove habitats 20 per cent by 2030.This target underpins and helps deliver an ambitious set of objectives such as ensuring the long-term continuity of mangrove-associated biodiversity, done by halting human-induced mangrove habitat loss and helping local stakeholders to sustainably manage mangrove resources.The Alliance also targets climate adaptation, climate mitigation and improving the well-being of an additional 10 million people dependent on coastal ecosystems. People who live in and around mangroves benefit from their services but it s important that people around the world realize the impact that mangrove habitats have on our planet, said Maria Damanaki, Global Managing Director, Oceans at The Nature Conservancy. The loss of these ecosystems could cause devastating effects to wildlife and humans alike and we need to start taking greater action now. COLLECTIVE EFFORTCurrently the Alliance is in the process of developing a work plan based on consultations with experts on the ground around the world.Projects will be expanded locally, regionally and globally with communities, governments and private sector leaders committed to halting and reversing mangrove forest loss, which already amounts to 50 percent of the world s habitats over the past half century.Mangrove forests serve as a transition between marine and terrestrial environments, providing protection from the impacts of climate change such as absorbing impact from wave energy and storm surges, adapting to rising sea levels and stabilizing shorelines from erosion. Mangrove ecosystems are incredibly productive and biologically diverse and they sustain coastal communities and fisheries, said Brad Ack, senior vice president of oceans for World Wildlife Fund.Despite their critical importance for vulnerable coastal communities, roughly 1 percent of the world s mangroves are destroyed each year. If this rate of loss continues, it is estimated that all unprotected mangroves could be lost in the next 100 years. Having three well-established conservation groups initially coordinating the Alliance gives us an upper hand in restoring mangroves to a proper state of health in a shorter period of time, added Greg Stone, Executive Vice President of Conservation International.The Global Mangrove Alliance is a commitment from the international community to reverse the loss of critically important mangrove habitats worldwide. The Alliance is guided by the concept of a cooperative, collective effort as a means to accomplish more than individual organizations attempting to tackle this issue on their own, and we are seeking interested partners across all sectors. email print email print ODM has cancelled its parallel rally. #ElectionsKE Doctors who fail to report to work will be fired. #ElectionsKE