Q. I studied hotel and tourism in the university. Rather than seek employment after my studies, I opened a coffee shop in Ongata Rongai. The business got off to a good start with a very positive return on capital. I have since expanded and opened up another branch in Kiserian town. The business pays all my bills, but taking a formal salary does not seem sensible. I see it as taking money from my right pocket and stuffing it in the left pocket, besides, I don’t know how I should reward myself. Please advise.  You are fortunate to have a business that started on such a positive note. Your success deserves commendation as it must in part be anchored on you having made fitting decisions that have precipitated a positive return on capital for your business. Whether working for your business or not, your contribution ought to be compensated. Furthermore, it is common to find that starting or running one’s own business takes up more time than a regular eight-to-five job. Bear in mind however that not all of the money in the business is profit or personal. Seeing that your business is already profitable, it is prudent to draw a periodic amount that meets your personal expenses without undermining your business operations and its future growth. You could consider the following before reaching a decision on how much salary to draw: What amount would a similar business pay for your services? Do your wages seem reasonable when you take into account the level of profit your business is generating? Are you setting aside funds to invest in the future growth of the business? Are you hedging against the inescapable rainy day? What about aspects such as your medical insurance without which you may face unexpected expenses? You could identify and network with a few successful business people who have set up similar businesses in order to learn from their experiences. Additionally, engaging the services of a professional accountant could yield useful advice on the financial health of your business. The amount you pay yourself should ultimately depend on the success of your business. To the extent that it is sustainably profitable, you have reason to relent on your austerity.  