Five people have been killed and six others injured after attackers from Lagdera, Garissa County, besieged Duse centre in Isiolo County this morning. According to Isiolo Police Commander Charles Ontita, a woman from the village was shot dead after close to 30 armed attackers invaded the village at around 5.30am. CONFUSION But Garba Tulla Deputy County Commissioner also confirmed that among those injured were two women, a child and three police reservists. “There is a lot of confusion in the area following the incident, we are yet to identify the names and ages of those injured,” said the DCC. Police suspect that the retaliatory attack has been orchestrated by angry Somali herders from Auliyan clan in Lagdera who were flushed out of grazing areas in Isiolo County. Two armed bandits were shot dead at the scene by police reservists who were deployed by the government two weeks ago to increase patrol in the conflict-prone area. FIRE “The police reservists exchanged fire at the scene and managed to kill two bandits on the spot, they further pursued others who had fled the area where they killed two others,” said Mr Ontita. The police boss reiterated that GSU officers have been sent to supplement efforts of police officers and reservists in pursuit of the attackers who have fled the area. The incident comes after the death of a 70-year-old man on Thursday at Taiboto, 15 kilometres from Garba Tulla town in another revenge attack. No suspect has been arrested in connection with the killings. 10 DEAD So far, 10 people have been killed and 13 others injured from Borana and Somali communities following the counter-attacks in less than two months. Mr Mohammed Boru, a resident of Garba Tulla, claimed locals had fled Korbesa, Rapsu and Duse areas for fear of the attacks. Mr Ontita noted that a security operation is currently under way in Duse and neighbouring areas to arrest the attackers. He urged locals to stay calm as police pursue the bandits who have been terrorising locals in parts of Isiolo South Constituency.   Pastoralists from Isiolo and Garissa counties fighting over grazing areas.