The housing sector in Meru Town, which occupies a unique place in the eastern and upper eastern Kenya business circuit, has been booming in the recent past. This is mainly attributable to a vibrant tertiary education sector, as well as banking, insurance, retail, agri-business and rentals. For instance, the town’s central business district (CBD)  has seen rapid growth in property development. Investors and residents who spoke to DN2 attributed the development to improved security and the ever-increasing demand for office space, with developers keen on exploiting the growing opportunities by putting up commercial buildings. Trendy and flashy buildings are coming up across Meru, thus positioning the town as a progressive regional business hub. This changes in design undoubtedly signal a change of taste in space and adaptability to new technologies for modern business enterprises. The imposing Sarah Plaza in the CBD is one such building. The complex stands out among  the old architecture, with its energy- and environment-friendly glass panelling, which can be found in some of the world’s famous cities. Located on a prime spot near the Meru bus terminus,  this development is expected to not only revolutionalise the property market in the town, but also to help push up property values. The Sh110 million mixed-use complex is the town’s tallest building and boasts seven floors of commercial rental space, ample basement parking space and penthouse offices on its seventh floor. It also has a lift, which only a few other buildings in the town have. In addition, it has an elaborate CCTV surveillance system, motion sensors, a back-up generator and private offices for different organisations to shared rooms referred to as campuses. It also has a high-roof atrium that allows natural light into the building, and all the office spaces have adequate ventilation. The Sara Plaza director, Maj (rtd) Silas Mwiti M’Thurua says it is designed to be flexible to the  clients’ specific preferences. “The growing business in Meru is, of course, an additional incentive to put up such a high- end building in the CBD. Real estate developers currently have no choice but to bow down to market demand and satisfy their clients’ needs,” he told DN2. The developer says he ventured into the business to tap into the booming cross-border trade. “In the recent past, Meru has undergone a radical transformation through rapid development. We are now dealing with choosy clientèle and to cash in on this domestic demand for quality office space, developers have to go above the usual. At Sarah Plaza, we have factored in energy usage, water efficiency and lowering utility bills. “Besides the booming hospitality industry, other businesses are also angling for a share of the trade opportunities occasioned by devolution, among other factors,” Mr Mwiti says. The pressure is so high in the CBD that it is driving businesses to the outskirts, with Makutano Township, about two kilometres away, being a beneficiary of this exodus. According to Ajogi East Africa Estates Ltd Managing Director Mwenda Murerwa, Makutano is an attractive option for many. The space formerly occupied by  shopshops and bungalows now have multiple-storeyed  flats, The township boasts numerous high-rise apartments with business premises, including banks, shopping centres, and hotels, popping up iwhere shops and bars once stood. . The Kenya Commercial Bank and Times U Sacco are some of the clients that  have opened new branches in Makutano benefit from the growing business. “Compared to Meru, land prices in Makutano are affordable. The availability of land here is another factor contributing to the township’s impressive growth,” Mr Murerwa says. He also attribute these developments to the tranquility and the decision by locals to develop their home town. “A huge percentage of these developments are by people from the local community, signaling their interest in investing back home. Makutano has experienced unprecedented expansion as demand for land for real estate development grows,” he says. Mr Murerwa says those in the industry value competition as it improves quality and provides  variety. However, the development of new business frontiers should be in tandem with the expansion of basic amenities, including water supply and access roads, the MD adds.  