Wiper Democratic Movement party leader Kalonzo Musyoka on Monday said the time is right for him to be president as he is the strongest candidate within his coalition but will support anyone else in a bid to send the Jubilee government home. But although Mr Musyoka said all the four National Super Alliance (Nasa) principals had agreed to support one another to the bitter end, Wiper is seriously lobbying to have the former Vice-President on the ballot in the August 8 General Election. “My brother (ODM party leader) Raila (Odinga) made it very clear that anyone can be president,” said Mr Musyoka. “Now, at my age of 63 years, why would I delay that decision any further? “And if you know if you put Kalonzo there Jubilee will go home, why waste time?” DISCUSS PREPARATIONS Mr Musyoka spoke at Bomas of Kenya, Nairobi, during a meeting called to discuss preparations for the party’s nominations. On Friday, Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) leader Raila Odinga had indicated that no one was barred from contesting to be flagbearer and said they would name one soon. This is after speculation from sections of the media and some politicians appeared to show that Mr Musyoka was considering ditching the coalition if he is not selected as its candidate. But Mr Musyoka also indicated that there would be a structured system signed by the Nasa principals on how they would share power if they won. “This time, there will be basic rules of engagement showing what belongs to whom,” said Mr Musyoka. “I’ve learnt from my mistakes in the past and the problem is, I have always been too trusting.” MALIGNING WIPER LEADER This sentiment of Mr Musyoka as presidential candidate was widely shared among the speakers. The meeting also ended with the party endorsing him to run. Present at the function were senators Mutula Kilonzo Jr (Makueni), Johnson Muthama (Machakos) and David Musila (Kitui). Others were former Cabinet minister Chirau Ali Mwakwere, Nairobi Deputy Governor Jonathan Mueke, Wiper Deputy Leader Farah Maalim, Makueni Governor Kivutha Kibwana, and Borabu Member of Parliament Ben Momanyi. Wiper Secretary-General Hassan Omar, however, warned Nasa members to stop maligning the Wiper party leader’s name. Mrs Agatha Solitei, the chairperson of Wiper’s election board, said the party was ready for the primaries, scheduled for April 18-24.  