IN KAMPALA, UGANDA Defending champion Geoffrey Kamworor on Sunday won senior men’s 10km race to retain his title as Kenya dominated the 2017 World Cross Country Championship held at Kololo Independence Grounds, Kampala. Kamworor, who was in the leading group, fell behind Uganda’s Joshua Cheptegei after two laps and trailed the home runner for the better part of the race before recovering to take the lead in the last kilometre of the race. From then on, Kamworor held on for victory, much to the disappointment of the Ugandan fans.       “I knew the pace the athlete was using was too high and I opted to follow him from behind and it worked well,” said Kamworor, who trains in Kaptagat.   Earlier, Kenya made history by clinching the first gold medal in the mixed relays. World 1,500m champion Asbel Kiprop set the pace, leading his opponents by about 50 metres before handing over the baton to Winfred Mbithe, Bernard Kipkorir and Beatrice Chepkoech. Chepkoech then anchored the team to victory against strong challenge from Ethiopians, led by Genzebe Dibaba.   Kiprop said they had planned well for the race well and executed their plan to perfection. “We are very happy to have brought home the medal. We knew the competition would be stiff and that’s why we had planned well,” said Kiprop. Chepkoech told Nation Sport that she was happy to have beaten Dibaba. “I really wanted to compete with Ethiopia’s Genzebe Dibaba and I knew this was my opportunity to show her my skills. I’m happy my team won,” said Chepkoech. Kenya clocked 22min,22 seconds ahead of Ethiopia who ran 22:30, while Turkey came third after clocking 22:37. In the senior women’s race, Kenyan athletes took the first six positions. Irene Cheptai led the group after clocking 31:57 ahead of Alice Aprot who clocked 32:01while Lilian Kasait took the third position with 32:11.     World 3,000 metres steeplechase champion Hyvin Kiyeng, former champion Agnes Tirop and Olympics champion in 1,500m Faith Chepng’etich came in fourth, fifth and sixth in that order. According to Cheptai, she had trained well and she knew the race would be tough and therefore worked extra hard to win gold medal. “We ran as a team and we were alone in a group as Kenyans. I increased my pace because I knew there were strong opponents in the pack and anything could have happened,” said Cheptai. She said she would embark on training as she eyes victory in the World Championships in Athletics to be held in London in August. “I have achieved what I wanted here today but the next target is the World Championships where I hope to compete in 10,000 metres. I will seek to fill the gap left by Vivian Cheruiyot in that category as Vivian has graduated to the marathon,” said Cheptai. In junior men’s category, Kenya took bronze medal through Richard Kimunyan after clocking 22:52. “The race was more competitive than I thought, although I had trained well. I just want to thank Kenyans who gave us the support. I know we are going to do better in future,” said Kimunyan. Jacob Kiplimo from Uganda won the race after clocking 22:40 ahead of Amdework Welelegn from Ethiopia who ran 22:43.       Geoffrey Kamworor defended his men's title.