Re-elected Kenya Rugby Union (KRU) chairman Richard Omwela has identified Kenya Simbas qualification to the 2019 Japan World Cup as his chief objective during his second term of two years.Omwela said he will institute a committee that will lay the ground work that will include sourcing for sponsorship and proper training to ensure Kenya makes to Japan. We want to seriously focus on developing the Under-19 age group so as to have strong side by 2019, said Omwela.Omwela said he will also ensure that Kenya Sevens uphold its quality with good remuneration for the players through more sponsorship. We have SportPesa on board but we need more sponsors to be able to remunerate our national sevens and 15s players well. Omwela retained his position when he beat his closest rival Sasha Mutai by two votes in hotly contested elections yesterday at the RFUEA ground, Nairobi. Omwela polled 25 votes against Sasha s 23. The other contestant, Pape Sembi, got nine votes. Omwela said he will continue to strengthen the secretariat that now has a chief executive officer, director of rugby and finance director. We want to completely take away the running of the game from the board, which has in the past messed up, said Omwela adding that they will empower rugby development officers.Sasha, who congratulated Omwela after conceding, said that the KRU constitution must be changed to align it with the New Sports Act. Sasha said Omwela had a head-start of four votes from the KRU board, which couldn t allow a level playing field.There were no jubilations after Kenya National Sports Council chairman Nderitu Gikaria announced the results. As you can see, this is a divided house and a sign that people want change, said Mutai.Kenya Rugby Union chairman Richard Omwela (right) speaks during the Union's Annual General Meeting on March 22, 2017 at RFUEA ground. KRU CEO Ronald Bukusi looks on. PHOTO | CHRIS OMOLLO |Kenya Rugby Union chairman Richard Omwela (left) is congratulated by his closest rival Alexander "Sasha" Mutai after the Kenya Rugby Union elections on March 22, 2017 at RFUEA ground. Omwela garnered 25 votes while Sasha had 23. PHOTO | CHRIS OMOLLO |Kenya Rugby Union chairman Richard Omwela is all smiles after retaining his seat during the Kenya Rugby Union elections on March 22, 2017 at RFUEA ground. PHOTO | CHRIS OMOLLO |Sylvia Kamau, Ian Mugambi, Ray Olendo and Ezekiel Owuor were elected directors. Kamau made a return as a director with the highest votes of 46 followed by Mugambi, who retained his position with 38 votes. Olendo (37) and Owuor (33) make it as directors for the first time.Outgoing director Oscar Mango (23), Boniface Salano (21) and Hillary Itela (20) were all felled. email print email print Minority Leader Francis Nyenze gives Nasa seven days to call a meeting and affirm 2013 MoU. I&#039;ll survive, Mombasa county boss says in probe on his Form 4 papers.