Some members of Nyeri County assembly have opted to skip the burial of Nderitu Gachagua citing security concerns. Majority Leader Duncan Gituanja claimed that some members had received death threats."We had planned to attend the burial but not anymore given the social media threats. We were recently told that our condolence messages were not accepted yet they were sincere," he said.Mr Gachagua s body arrived in the country today morning from London and will be laid to rest on Monday at the family home in Hiriga, Mathira constituency.He died of pancreatic cancer. Mr Samuel Wamathai is now the governor.NO SECURITYAccording to the Kabaru ward representative, his colleagues have been portrayed in a manner intimating that they played a part in the death of the governor, which he said is misleading and untrue.Thus, Mr Gituanja sent President Uhuru Kenyatta an apology confirming their expected absenteeism."The security apparatus in the county has not assured us of security. We feel [that] since we do not own guns we cannot afford to take that risk," he said.Last year the ward representatives were attacked by people when they attended a function in Kabaru that was presided over by Governor Gachagua.Gikondi Ward Representative James Kahiga - who is also the chief whip, accused Mr Rigathi Gachagua of exploiting the death of his brother to advance his political interests. MALICE"He wants to play politics with the brother s death and we can see a lot of malice yet the members are very willing to work with the new governor," he alleged.Mr Rigathi is vying for the Mathira parliamentary seat. The chief whip added that the threats warned them against setting foot at the family home.Instead, they said they will travel to Naivasha for a Devolution conference. email print email print Airplane carrying the body of Nyeri's first governor arrives from London, where he died. Officials at Pangani headquarters cite integrity issues and order from above in their decision. Wacu s club Kenya Prisons has however denied knowledge of the impending transfer.