Some ward representatives in Nyeri County have warned the late Governor Nderitu Gachagua’s brother against meddling in county affairs after his utterances during the swearing in of the new county boss rubbed them the wrong way. Rigathi Gachagua who has been at loggerheads with some of the ward representatives condemned them for their sudden change of heart after they organised a special sitting to eulogise Mr Gachagua. “I wish you told him those sweet words when he was ailing and not in a special sitting after his death,” he said on Monday. Mr Wamathai was sworn in as Nyeri’s second governor following the death of Mr Gachagua on Friday in a London hospital. On Tuesday, during the afternoon sitting MCAs accused Mr Rigathi of disrespecting the assembly speaker, David Mugo. Riring’u Ward Representative Edward Muteru said the heartfelt messages directed to Gachagua’s family should not be taken as mockery. “This assembly does not take instructions from outsiders. If those instruction were given by the governor then we would considered them,” he said. Mr Rigathi had directed the assembly to pass the supplementary budget pending in the house to prove their support for Mr Wamathai. Rugi Ward Representative Johnson Njoroge was first to launch attacks accusing Mr Rigathi of embezzling county funds through dubious contracts. He termed Mr Rigathi as an intruder who had messed the county yet he does not hold any position in the administration formerly led by his brother. When the governor was absent from work due to poor health, the MCAs accused Mr Rigathi, Mathira parliamentary aspirant, of usurping the powers of the then deputy county. The MCAs pledged to support the new county boss but vowed to oppose any attempts to dictate what should happen in the county. Kimathi Ward Representative Stephen Mwaniki said the assembly would continue to exercise its oversight responsibility to the maximum. “We were doing our job within provision of the constitution and we will continue to oversight the new governor without fear,” he said.   Governor Wamathai promises to fight corruption in Nyeri County.