Political parties are gearing up for nominations next month, a critical stage in the General Election calendar. The major parties have been registering members expected to participate at the nominations, either as candidates or voters. But, as we have long established, they are mere vehicles to political power. Loyalty to any party is ephemeral; often runs for single electoral cycle because of lack of ideology. A majority of the political players have shifted parties not less than five times, primarily in search of a better vehicle to a preferred destination. This explains the current flurry of activities around parties as aspirants shuffle from one entity to another in search of relevance. Parties are in a mad race for numbers to shore up their strength. Shifting political parties is a personal choice and an exercise of a right. However, our concern is that parties are engaging in devious ways to recruit members. Since the Registrar of Political Parties made public this week the list of party membership, many people have been horrified to find they have been listed in parties they do not belong to or even aspired to join. It seems the parties have been fraudulently recruiting members, which is clearly a breach of electoral regulations. Clearly, this is the beginning of vote rigging. If the deception goes full cycle, then non-existent party members will be purported to vote for candidates who may end up winning nominations and eventually the elections. Quick and drastic actions must be taken to reverse this. The Registrar of Political Parties must clean up the lists. Immediately, the public must be sensitised to verify their membership — and this will require mass voter education to get all eligible people to do so. Second, the registrar must investigate and get to the bottom of the fraud and those found to have perpetrated it must be punished. Delivering fair and credible elections starts with the parties, which have an obligation to organise themselves in an honest and transparent manner. The registrar must enforce the law and ensure that parties conduct themselves decently.  