Former president of Football Kenya Federation Sam Nyamweya has described the ongoing stand-off between local football administrators a sickening crisis that requires urgent intervention of Fifa and Caf.The veteran football administrator on Saturday urged the feuding officials to find an amicable solution to the disagreement on the size and composition of the local football league. Nyamweya, who served as FKF president between 2011 and 2016, also urged his successors at FKF to honour a Memorandum of Agreement he signed on behalf of the federation with KPL in 2015 to the letter . OFFICIALS WERE PRESENT That MOU was negotiated and I signed after getting clearance from FKF s Annual General Meeting at (Nairobi s) Sagret Hotel attended by both (FKF president) Nick Mwendwa and (CEO) Robert Muthomi as delegates. The two cannot suddenly now turn their back on it. Besides, the agreement has a clause for resolving the crisis, Nyamweya said on Friday.Football Kenya Federation and Kenyan Premier League Limited officials have been wrangling over the size and composition of the top-flight league. The three-month stand-off has resulted in several court battles and a month-long delay in start of the local league. The SportPesa sponsored league is now slated to kick off on Saturday.Already, the stand-off has resulted in the withdrawal of Sh1.5 million in sponsorship of Sunday s DStv Super Cup between league champions Tusker and Gor Mahia. There has been a lot of uncertainty about this match from the start. I think the sponsors planned and planned and re-planned while the organisers kept on postponing this game for political reasons. In the end the game now doesn t fit in their programme, Gor Mahia assistant secretary general Ronald Ngala.The Super Cup is the curtain-raiser of the Kenyan Premier League. email print email print Rivals Tusker and Gor Mahia face-off Sunday afternoon at the Afraha Stadium. Ms Ndung&#039;u said the list of party members has been made accessible to all for verification. Poaching incidents in the Tsavo East National Park have escalated in the recent past.