Wiper MPs have dismissed a recent opinion poll declaring ODM leader Raila Odinga as National Super Alliance (Nasa) best bet to beat President Uhuru Kenyatta in August elections. MPs Charles Nyamai (Kitui Rural) and Makali Mulu (Kitui Central) who are key allies of Wiper party leader and Nasa co-principal Kalonzo Musyoka questioned the timing of the poll and methodology used in arriving at the findings. Speaking separately to the Nation, the MPs claimed that releasing the poll results at the moment was meant to manipulate the Nasa coordinating committee, which has almost concluded the process of identifying the Opposition’s flag bearer. Mr Nyamai said the findings were “deliberately cooked” to hand over the presidential ticket to Mr Odinga and blackmail and intimidate the other Nasa leaders into abandoning the primary contest. “We read a lot of political mischief in this poll because it doesn’t reflect the reality on the ground and every Nasa supporter knows an Odinga-led ticket cannot deliver victory for the Opposition,” Mr Nyamai said. The MP alleged that there was a scheme by some government backed political forces to manipulate the Nasa nomination process into Mr Odinga’s favour using opinion polls. On his part, Dr Makali said that ‘statistically speaking’ the findings were contradictory and inconsistent with the methodology used and hence making the poll results questionable. “From face value, these figures do not add up. The huge disparity between Mr Odinga and Mr Musyoka’s ratings contradict the findings per region,” said Dr Makali. On Saturday, Infotrak released a survey indicating Mr Odinga enjoyed a 68.3 per cent rating to emerge as the most preferred Nasa flag bearer for the August 8 polls. Mr Musyoka came second at 13.1 per cent while his Amani National Congress counterpart Musalia Mudavadi got a 12.3 per cent rating. Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang’ula garnered 2.2 per cent. The two MPs spoke as veteran journalist Enoch Wambua wrote a stinging opinion in one of the dailies warning that naming Mr Odinga the Nasa candidate will hand President Uhuru Kenyatta an easy win at the August elections. Mr Wambua who is running for Kitui senatorial seat rooted for a Kalonzo-Mudavadi ticket as the only way the opposition will send Jubilee home and urged for speedy conclusion of the process. Nasa has picked a 12-member committee drawn from the four partner parties to identify its flag bearer and running mate.   Dr Khalwale maintains that the Nasa coordinating committee will not be influenced. #ElectionsKE