The official reconnaissance of the entire route of the 2017 Safari Rally starts on Wednesday. As part of the rules governing the sport, all drivers are required to check the route of the two-day competition prior to the start within the stipulated period of time starting Wednesday and ending on Thursday at 6pm. Finland’s Tapio Laukkanen arrived on Sunday morning, while drivers from Burundi, Zambia, Uganda and Tanzania are expected in the country by Tuesday in readiness for the recce Wednesday morning. Failing to complete the recce plans within the given period, drivers will have no other option but to tackle the event without checking it as the rally kicks off on Friday at 8am from the Kenyatta International Convention Centre. Tash Tundo, the sole lady driver in the list of over 50 entrants, remained optimistic about her recce plans with the view of doing better in this year’s round of the Safari Rally. “We are using a Toyota VX for the recce with my brother Carl and my navigator Chantal Young in one car. Carl’s navigator, Tim Jessop, couldn’t get off from his work place,’’ Tash told Nation Sport on Monday. Tash added: ‘’I would like to do better than the 12th place I scored in last year’s Safari Rally with help of my team of six people that includes four mechanics, me and Chantal. Our Subaru N10 is ready for the action with the help of our sponsors, Hai Powered under the Liquid Telecommunication’s banners.’’ While Tash is the sole lady driver, there are several other female competitors, whose main role will be to guide their drivers as navigators. They include Kenya’s Chantal, Silvia Frigo and Tuta Mionki, Uganda’s Susan Kalema and Urshilla Gomes from Zambia in the mainly male dominated event. On day one of the recce, drivers will inspect stages through Ngong, Kedong, Suswa and Aberdare Hills before ending at the Buffalo Mall in Naivasha. Day Two recce will take drivers through Aberdare Hills, Elementaita, Ndundori and Gichecha Farm respectively. The stages are expected to be dry and dusty following the recent countrywide drought. If rains come down, then the event is expected to turn slippery, wet and muddy.  