Jeremy Wahome, 18, is not your ordinary teenager. He has burst into the motorsport racing territory with purpose, and a level of enthusiasm that his peers and even older people can only admire. Jeremy is currently in the final year of his A-Levels studies in the UK, where he also participates in racing competitions. His journey in racing began back in 2007, then only eight years, when his father bought him a 60cc go kart. From the moment he sat in the cockpit of his dummy car, Jeremy was hooked. “From then on, I developed a keen interest in motorsport and racing. When I turned 12, I had moved up to the Junior Rotax level, the 100cc category. I raced in this category in the Rift Valley Motorsports Club championship until I turned 16.” In 2012 he participated in his first race outside the country, in the UK. Two years later, he represented Kenya in the Rotax Max Africa Open championship in Pretoria, South Africa. “In December 2014, I drove a Formula 4 car for the first time as I progressed into single-seater racing, in my quest to become Kenya’s first Formula 1 driver.” The youngster’s fortunes would forever change when his father, Anthony Wahome, and manager Fraser Sheader of Add Motor Sports in the UK, met Mark Thomson, then president of the Formula BMW Asia Cup series. This interaction handed Jeremy the opportunity to switch from karting to formula racing. The engagement soon bore fruit when, in June 2015, he participated in his first ever Formula BMW race at the world-famous Sepang International Circuit. To the consternation of many, Jeremy put on a strong show, finishing second after a bruising battle.   “This was my first podium finish in Formula racing. It was a humbling experience when I went to collect my first racing award.” BIGGER DREAMS These exploits would fire him up to take part in other major championships in Asia and Europe. Shortly afterwards, he signed up with Chris Dittmann Racing, to participate in the 2016 BRDC British Formula 3 Championship, his first full championship in single seaters. Jeremy hopes to participate in the same championship again this year, as his racing star continues to glow. Besides racing, this young man is involved in philanthropy, and last year, donated a fully-equipped public library in Kibera, and has a vision to set up more across the country. The motivation to set up the facility, Jeremy says, stemmed from the exposure he had as a student in the UK. “Studying abroad has opened up my eyes to the many opportunities there are for young people in and outside Kenya, and how education is a crucial stepping stone to achieving one’s dreams. I therefore wanted young children who may not have the same privileges as I have had to have the opportunity to realise their dreams through reading books.” He is at Cheltenham College, where he is doing his A levels. The teenager describes himself as an all-round sportsman – he also plays squash, hockey and basketball and enjoys swimming. For someone so young and with such a heavy schedule, Jeremy cites his teachers’ and parents’ guidance as the key factor that has enabled him to manage his time well, usually by planning ahead, remaining composed under pressure, and even sacrificing some of his comforts. “The school and racing calendars conflict a lot. I always have to identify when and for how long I will be away from school and read ahead on the lessons I may miss during my racing engagements. I watch less movies than my friends, and sleep for lesser hours in some months.” Motorsport racing has found a permanent home in Jeremy’s heart, who intends to commit his future to racing. “My dream is to become Kenya’s first Formula 1 driver and champion, and put Kenya’s name on the global stage of racing. Having now joined Formula 2, Formula 1 is very much in sight.” According to the young star, nothing should beset what you wish to achieve. “Everyone may start from a different background and a different starting point, and the path may sometimes be very troubling, but if you keep pushing hard towards what your heart desires without losing focus, you will certainly achieve your dream. No dream is too big or too insignificant.”  