Kilifi North MP Gideon Mung’aro has reached out to residents of Ganze and Bamba, seeking their support for the governor’s seat. Mr Mung’aro, who defected from ODM to Jubilee, toured both Ganze and Bamba trading centres Wednesday in a series of rallies where he promised to prosecute those involved in corruption if he becomes the Kilifi governor. Speaking at Ganze trading centre in the company of MP Peter Shehe, Mr Mung’aro said many Kilifi residents, especially those who live in rural areas, are yet to see the benefits of devolution because money meant for development ended up in people’s pockets. “People are portraying a picture that the national government is not keen on developing the counties. “The truth is that the county gets Sh9.6 billion every year from the national government. Have you asked yourselves where this money [goes]?” Mr Mung’aro asked the residents. He said the money coming into Kilifi County had factored, among other issues, the challenges that have plagued the county, since most of its land is arid and semi-arid. RETURN STOLEN MONEY “If you elect me in August, my first job will be getting all the plundered county resources back to the people. All the riches that were acquired through corruption should be repossessed and given back to the tax payers. I will do that without fear,” he said. Mr Shehe said he has brought development in Ganze despite several hurdles that came in his way when he was elected MP in 2013. “The moment I was declared the area MP, one of my opponents went to court and challenged my election. I won the battle but even before the dust could settle, I was dragged to court on corruption allegations by some Ganze activists. But amid these tribulations, I managed to carry out a number of projects,” said Mr Shehe. In a recent report by the National Government Constituency Development Fund Board, Ganze was ranked among the top three constituencies in the country that showed improved development. “To be at the top amongst many constituencies in Kenya is not a joke. We have done a lot in Ganze, ranging from infrastructure to education and other sectors,” said Mr Shehe. The two Jubilee politicians later headed to Bamba trading centre for a rally.   Mung’aro promises to involve Somalis in his administration if elected governor. #ElectionsKe