Every time she leaves home, Patience Mukui takes with her a brown envelope with a CV, transcripts and a copy of her son’s certificate. For the last six months, she has knocked various doors, visited recruitment websites and pleaded with friends to look for a job for her son who holds a diploma in Information Technology. All the while, 24-year-old Isaac is happy to spend time playing computer games at a friend’s cyber café. His unemployment does not seem to bother him because he hopes his mother’s effort will bear fruit. He does not want to look for a job because he would not know how to go about it since he has never had to do anything for himself. He also does not want a chance for employment at his friend’s café because the pay would not be ‘that good.’ In Isaac’s mind, his mother understands him and would get him the ‘right’ job. His mother agrees that he would be lost in the job search ‘wilderness.’ READ: Job seekers fall prey to fake employment adverts READ: Looking forward to employment? Here's the reality check! At a human rights organisation in Mombasa, the human resource manager, Nahashon Mwamba, is preparing a call out for an office assistant because they have had to let go of the current one. She was fired because she could not deliver, was always late and was poor at taking instructions. She had been given the job as a favour to her parents who are lawyers in Mombasa. “She did not finish her six months probation and most of the time other people had to do her job. It was a hard decision to make for the director since she is a friend of the family, but there was so much that could be done for her,” he says. POOR UPBRINGINGMr Mwamba says the office assistant did not seem bothered that she had lost the chance. In fact, she was overheard saying she did not like the job and it was good riddance. The HR manager says he is sorry for the young woman, but points to the fact that he comes across young people who have no idea about the hustle of getting a job and keeping it. So what could be the problem? In light of long going discussions on how our education system has produced robots instead of people ready for the job market, now it seems some cannot keep or look for a job unless mum or dad does it for them. “Such young people are used to getting their way and have grown up knowing it is the duty of their parents to do everything including looking for a job for them,” he says. Some of them do not even have a financial plan because their salaries are for luxuries since mum and dad take care of expenses. Jane Godia, a life coach and mentor, says she has met adults who have not fully become independent because of their upbringing. She agrees that some parents pamper their children to adulthood and hardly let them learn on their own. “Work is a larger family set up and if one grew where there were no rules of engagement and was never taught their value, it would be difficult to adjust. "An 18-year-old is an adult and parents should view them as such. I know a 35-year-old who still lives with the parents because they are too afraid of venturing out on their own and the parents seem to agree,” Godia says. She points out that millennials tend to be closer to their parents. “In a way this is a good thing, but it has its downside because they depend so much on their parents they barely make independent decisions. Some parents mistake love for pampering or controlling of their children’s lives into adulthood,” she says. HALF-BAKEDIf life hands them a lemon, such adults have no idea what to do except call mum or dad, she observes. Several parents interviewed say the job market has shrunk and they would not hesitate to look for a job for their adult children and paying for their upkeep. Some cited nepotism, tribalism and corruption as a reason they would do anything to secure their adult children jobs. While using connections or helping children look for a job is not bad, it is counter-productive if they are not taught the value of work and consequences that may arise in case of indiscipline of failure to deliver, Godia adds. She says schools should also be alive to students’ talent and skills and guide them appropriately. A survey released in 2014 by Inter-University Council for East Africa blamed lack of self-confidence, communication skills, motivation, interpersonal skills, appearance, punctuality and flexibility, critical thinking, problem solving and attention to detail as some of the problems employers cited when asked about newly employed graduates. The report said of the 50,000 students who graduate annually in Kenya, only half of them are suitable for employment.  