Q. I’m a university trained engineer working for a government construction agency. I have been employed for five years, but with negligible career progress. Meanwhile, most of my former classmates with whom I graduated have made big professional strides. Some of them are employed in the private sector while others are running their own companies. While I was the envy of my fellow graduates when I got the government job, today I’m the laughing stock among these same colleagues. Was taking this job a misstep for me?  You appear to closely associate career progress with employment in the private sector or setting up your own business. Besides the increasing splendour of job titles, remuneration and time spent in a role, career progress could encompass the personal and professional growth cultivated from experience as well as the contribution one makes in an organisation. Although some organisations are better than others at nurturing them, opportunities for growth exist in almost any role. Those who succeed most in their careers do not belong to particular organisations; they possess a particular mindset. While they are aware that their environment plays a role, they nonetheless remain captains of their growth. Being the first off the starting blocks into the race of your career does not keep you ahead of the pack. The course is long and only the feet of those who endure to the end cross the finish line. Sometimes it is not possible to tell the winners very early and thankfully, career being a marathon, not a sprint, you have opportunity to catch up. Rather than beam all attention on your peers, craft your career goals considering your interests, values and ability. You may draw inspiration from others, but becoming their clone is not progress. Seek the guidance of a career coach or mentor to help you identify and follow key steps towards the achievement of your goals. You may discover and exploit opportunities for personal growth that may allow you to make progress in your current organisation, find another job or even start a business. And as you draft your career goals, remember that the higher you desire to reach, the more you need to stretch. It is true that the price of progress is seldom discounted.   My course mates think that multiple skills water down one’s performance at a job.