Round two leader Greg Snow on Thursday extended his lead from one to four shots after firing a level par 72, going into Friday’s final round of the one million shillings Jamii Telkom PGK Masters at Sigona Golf Club. Snow set off the day well and was at some point eight under par on the leader board. He birdied four holes at the front nine against only one bogey at the stroke index one-par four-seventh. And despite a birdie start at the 591-yards par five-10th, Snow bogeyed the 11th, 13th, 14th and the 18th for three over par at the back nine finish on level par and a three rounds total of four under par 212. “The pins were so difficult to reach and the greens were firm, though I was cruising pretty well," said the event's three-time champion, who still holds the highest aggregate of 16 under par in the Jamii Telkom PGK Masters. INDIZA SECOND The long-hitting Indiza posted three over 75 for the day to remain in second place though four shots adrift on 216. He will need a string of birdies on Friday if he hopes to turn the table on Snow. Starting the day with three back to back pars, Indiza hit four bogeys there after for an outward nine of four over par. He however managed to reduce the margin at the back nine where he birdied the 12th and 15th though with a bogey five at the 18th. Nyanza Golf Club’s David Odhiambo, on three over par 75, tied for the third place with Muthaiga’s Kopan Timbe who posted one over 73 to also close the day on 217. Then there was a tie between home pro John Wangai and Limuru’s John Kagiri on 219. Wangai had a bad outing, firing five over 77 while Kagiri carded one over par 73. Kenya Amateur Matchplay champion Sujan Shah, who stared with a disastrous 81, shot one over par 73 for a total of 225 and remains on course for a prize. The pros will now be joined by a big field of 284 amateurs drawn from various clubs in the country for the final day of the event. The pros will however be teeing off first at 8am followed by the amateurs from 8.46am.   Snow went up by a shot from overnight leader Dismas Indiza of Mumias.