Kenya’s junior golf team of four boys and three girls left on Sunday evening for Harare where this year’s All Africa Junior Championship will be held, starting on Tuesday at Royal Harare Golf Club. Led by the Junior Golf Foundation (JGF) president Gitonga Kabera, the boys’ team features Agil Is-Haq (Nyali), Mutahi Kibugu (Muthaiga), Zubair Khan (Muthaiga) and Windsor’s Akshay Chandaria. GIRLS' TEAM The girls’ team has Ladies champion Kellie Gachaga of Muthaiga, Ashley Awuor and Loise Akinyi from the Rose Naliaka Academy at Golf Park. They were expected to play a practise round on Monday at Royal Harare followed by the flag raising ceremony. The first round of the 72-hole championship where the winner will represent Africa in the Toyota World Junior Championship in Japan in June, is due on Tuesday at 8am, followed by the second and third on Wednesday and Thursday, while the final round will take place on Friday. The team returns home on Saturday. Other officials accompanying the juniors are the legendary Rose Naliaka and national coach Brian Njoroge. A total of 12 countries are expected to participate in the championship which has been dominated by South Africa for many years now. SOUTH KOREAN WON Meanwhile, South Korean Lee Mi-Rim fired seven birdies in a seven-under par 65 on Sunday to post a record-equalling triumph in the LPGA Kia Classic in Carlsbad, California. Lee’s 20-under par total of 278 matched the tournament record set by Cristie Kerr in 2015 — when the American powered past Lee for a two-shot victory. Determined not to be disappointed again, overnight leader Lee opened her round with a birdie and birdied every other hole on the front nine as she pulled away from the field. She finished six strokes in front of compatriot Ryu So-Yeon, who carded a 66, and American Austin Ernst, who posted a 67. “I was a little nervous, but I made it,” said Lee, who also added birdies at 15 and 16 before she was done. Lee said her ball-striking was better this year than it was two years ago, when she couldn’t hold on to her third-round lead. She claimed her third LPGA Tour victory and her first since winning twice in her rookie season of 2014. Her total could have been even more impressive. At 16 she left an eagle attempt short, and she had a good look at a long birdie at the last. Throughout much of the round it was Ryu giving chase. She started the day five-strokes off Lee’s lead, but pulled within three shots with three holes to play. She was unable to convert several birdie attempts on the back nine but she was encouraged by her performance.  