That the presentation on Wednesday of the State of The Nation by President Uhuru Kenyatta has elicited mixed reactions is expected. In fact, it is normal. The address touched on a variety of areas that affect every Kenyan citizen and because the President is a leader of the entire country and its citizens, it is only fair that his employers react to the veracity or otherwise of what he says are his doings. He was hired to do some work and he should, from time to time, report on the progress of the assignment. And because it is virtually impossible to get all the 40 million–plus Kenyans to have their say on a national platform, media practitioners oftentime seek the opinions of political leaders who are thought, wrongly or rightly, to be representative of the masses. Half of the time though, what we get from these leaders are own opinions mainly defined by their political party affiliations of the time. That also is acceptable, for he who pays the piper calls the tune. The opinions are as varied as the paymasters and that is why one can always predict what a given leader will say on the topic of the day. On the State of the Nation address, therefore, it was expected that those politicians allied to the ruling Jubilee Alliance Party would agree with almost everything the President said he has done in the four years he has been in power. Those in the Opposition on the other hand would, more likely than not, discredit whatever achievements Mr Kenyatta would say his administration had made. ABSOLUTE TRUTH This invites the question: isn’t there something like absolute truth? Can’t we at some point agree, for instance, that the sun today rose from the east and not be tempted to argue that it came from the south-southeast just because the claimant of the east position is from a competing political position? There is always a temptation to find an argument over whatever anyone claims to be real and when we cannot find, we start looking at other relative angles that will create perception of difference. One such instance where arguments arise is which administration should take credit for the various projects done by the government. The President on Wednesday enumerated a number of mega projects that the government had completed or were ongoing. These include the standard gauge railway, the electrification of various parts of the country, the cash transfer programme, the betterment of the public health services, the improvement of security, road and bridge infrastructure and the fight against corruption, poverty and ignorance – the Head of State said about them all. Then the debate began! Social media, radio, television and bars were awash with postulations and counter arguments. While there was little disagreement that the said milestones had actually been realised, the focus was on whether the Jubilee government was justified to claim credit for the progressive achievements or the bragging rights should be taken by the Government of National unity that Jubilee took over from. CUMULATIVE LEADERSHIPS Now, it is a fact that leaders come and go. But nations live for longer, if not forever. The progress of nations is a function of cumulative leaderships that have run them and individual leaders. At every point in time the leaders get the mandates to take over from their predecessors and take the nations forward with continuity and change left mainly at their discretion. It is a mark of wisdom and altruism for a leadership to identify great ideas from their predecessors and implement them while at the same time evaluating the changing circumstances and coming up with other ideas to better their societies. It is the lack of this kind of wisdom that for instance, advises incoming Members of Parliament and other elected leaders to abandon useful projects initiated by their predecessors and embark on their own just to claim credit while leading to loss of massive public resources already invested in the projects they found. To President Kenyatta and his Jubilee government, we celebrate you for completing the mega projects that have made our lives better. To Raila Odinga, thank you for having a vision when you served as Prime Minister in the Government of National Unity. If you become president in future, please do not ignore grand projects initiated by your predecessors – we will celebrate you for this.  Michael Cherambos is a social, political and economic commentator based in Nairobi. michaelcherambos@gmail.com  