The par 72 Ruiru Sports Club is a busy place once again this weekend with back to back corporate sponsored tournaments. After a successful Lady Captain s Prize last weekend which was sponsored by Vivo Energy managing director Polycarp Igathe, club captain Martin Karanja will be hosting the Captain s Prize this weekend. The one-day event, sponsored by Empire Realtors courtesy of Kamau Kimenju who is also a member of the club, winds up Karanja s term. HUGE FIELDAn overwhelming field of 250 golfers has been drawn to battle it out for the top prizes which include an eighth of an acre plot as a Hole-in-One prize courtesy of Empire Realtors. Besides Realtors, the event has also attracted other co-sponsors such as online betting firm SportPesa among others. We had a successful and eventful year which saw big organisations such as Kenya Revenue Authority and Safari Park Hotel &amp; Casino amongst others sponsor events and we would like to wind up the activities of 2016 in style, said Karanja. It s been a great year and this is my opportunity to appreciate all those who have supported me. We ve just opened our second nine which had been closed for two months for rehabilitation and our par 72, course is in good condition despite the dry conditions. Karanja said the usual tough holes (10, 12, and 16) are set to offer a major challenge to golfers in their quest to win some of the prizes.During last weekend s Lady Captain s Prize, Josphat Kaunda - playing off handicap 18 - beat a strong challenge from Fredrick Mburu and Michael Chege who he beat on a three way countback with an excellent score of 43 points. The three plus others like Gabriel Muthwale and the long-hitting Ndiga Kithae are expected to produce some fireworks as Jane Kanari, Margaret Kamau, Lucy Njuguna, Susan Kanyora, Veronica Mwaura and Pauline Mungai battle it for the ladies title. Meanwhile, Muthaiga will on Friday will host the annual Diabetes Management Information charity event which marks its 17th year. The fund raising event together with other activities support the Centre s Children s Insulin Bank which currently has 400 children. A host of corporate organisations are supporting the event in addition to the individual golfers.They include Co-op Bank, UAP-Old Mutual Group, Village Market Group, Chem-Labs Ltd, Seven Seas Technologies Group, Canopy Insurance Brokers, Davis &amp; Shirtliff, Lancet Kenya, Nairobi Hospital, DENT Ltd, Ketepa, Penant Enterprises and Muthaiga Golf Club. email print email print Mr Esipisu argued that the government had achieved a lot and deserved a second term. Education Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang i put county officials on notice.