Impressive Homeboyz consolidated their third spot on the Kenya Cup league table with a deserved 34-22 win over Kabras Sugar at Jamhuri Park showground in Nairobi on Saturday.And at the Lion s Den in Ruaraka, Kenya Commercial Bank maintained their one point lead at the top of the table after they beat Nondescripts 27-8.The win moved the bankers to 55 points, one more than second placed Kenya Harlequin, who saw off a battling Mean Machine 17-15 at the University of Nairobi grounds. Darwin Mukidza scored three penalties while Rocky Aguko, Oliver Mang'eni and Moses Amusala touched down a try each to hand the league leaders their 11th win out of 13 matches. It was a comfortable match for the lads, our forward line and defence were on top and were unable to deal with their attacks. There are still a number of matches to go but so far so good, the season is going according to track, a satisfied KCB coach Curtis Olago said after the match. Second placed Quins survived a second half onslaught from Machine to walk away with a win. In the Homeboyz, Kabras encounter, winger Charles Omondi scored on his debut for the Deejays with Kelvin Masai, Steve Otieno, Cyprian Kuto, Keith Wasike and Tony Onyango also among the scorers. Felix Ayange and Kelvin Kabole crossed once each for Kabras as Philip Wokorach sent in one conversion and two penalties.Kabras were quick off the blocks with Wokorach scoring a penalty but the hosts hit back through Kelvin Masai s touch down that he failed to convert. Homeboyz added yet another try through Kuto on the right wing to double their lead at the break. Steve Otieno extended Homeboyz s lead after the restart but Masai failed to convert. Wokorach then stepped up to add a second Kabras penalty. Tony Onyango landed the bonus point earning fourth try for Homeboyz. email print email print Simiyu said his charges would have been able to secure at least one win had they been more alert. Some Nyeri MCAs have arrived to send off the governor.Former Mungiki leader accuses Jubilee Party of taking his Sh250,000 and locking him out.