Team Kenya landed safely in Kampala on Friday and promised nothing short of victory in Sunday s IAAF World Cross Country Championships.Head coach Juma Ndiwa said that the good one month in training in Kigari, Embu County, had transformed his side to a fearless and winning outfit and warned their opponents of ruthless battle at the Kololo Independence Grounds Sunday afternoon. We have trained well and I thank God there have been no injuries, said Ndiwa adding that they are ready to take on any challenge. We know there is Ethiopia, Uganda and other countries that have former Kenyans and former Ethiopians, but they also fear us too, explained Ndiwa. This is a war that we have prepared well for it we are going to win. Team captain Leonard Komon, who won silver during the 2008 World Cross Country Championships, said he is not only going for victory but also inspire the rest for the same. We have a strong squad that is capable of destroying any opposition and that is why we are not targeting any opposition, said Komon. Let me assure Kenyans that victory will be ours on Sunday. Komon said his return after many years was significant adding that it was a great honour to be selected as team captain. I thank them for believing in me and I need to reciprocate with a good show. The high discipline during the residential training will for sure take us somewhere good, said Komon, who called for teamwork in Kampala. We have instil the essence of teamwork from the start to the end. Komon said that the junior really impressed in training and hopes that the hard work and discipline will translate to victory in Kampala. They have matured well and we can only leave the rest to God, said Komon.Defending senior men s champion Geoffrey Kamworor oozed confidence ahead of his title defence. I mean you have seen these jovial faces. That is a sign of god things to come in Kampala. I can t wait to defend my title then focus on how to win the 10,000m title at the World Championships in London, said Kamworor adding that he is not under any pressure to defend his title. I have no worries since I have been training well and in the best way possible. I know I have done enough. Kamworor thanked the team and Kenyans for having faith and confidence in him. I feel humbled and for sure I can t disappoint their feelings, he said.Kamworor, who is also the World Half Marathon champion and world 10,000m silver medallist, called on his colleagues to put fear aside. We have met and beaten them hence nothing to worry about. Olympic 800m bronze medallist Margaret Nyairera warned world 1,500m champion Genzebe Dibaba of Ethiopia to prepare for a telling assault in the mixed relays race. They have talked about how they are ready for us but we don t fear them. God will help us overcome them, said Nyairera.Athletics Kenya hosted the team for lunch at Weston Hotel in Nairobi before they flew out to Uganda Friday.AK President Jackson Tuwei called on Kenyans to pray for the team besides turning out in numbers to cheer the team to victory in Kampala. We thank Kenyans for their support. We believe this is the best team we have and victory will be ours come Sunday, said Tuwei, who cautioned the team about the challenge they face.PROGRAMME2:00pm: Mixed relay race (8km)2:30pm: Junior women (6km)3:10pm: Junior men (8km)3:55pm: Senior women (10km)4:55pm: Senior men (10km) email print email print Home team arrives in capital from training base in Kapchorwa happy with prospects. The Nasa leaders are seeking for support to unseat Jubilee. #ElectionsKE Political parties are not responsible for development, says Mvurya. #ElectionsKE