Uganda Police Spokesperson Andrew Felix Kaweesi has been shot dead. Assistant Inspector-General Kaweesi and two other police officers were killed on Friday by unknown assailants about 100 metres from his home in Kulambiro, Nakawa Division, Kampala. 3 OFFICERS "He was shot dead this morning as he was leaving his home coming to work," Inspector-General of Police Kale Kayihura said on Friday. "Kaweesi had two police officers guarding him who were also killed. The motive is yet to be established," he added. A large crowd of local residents gathered at the scene where the officers' dead bodies slumped inside a black vehicle, blood pooling under shattered glass alongside the car. The bodies were later taken away. SHOT RAPIDLY A local resident described seeing four men on two motorcycles attack the car the police officers were travelling in at around 9.30 am as they left for work. "Two motorbike riders and two men with guns fired at the car. They shot very rapidly with guns that looked like AK47s," said Mohammad, a motorcycle rider who lives and works in the area. "The motorbikes came from behind as the car was leaving Kaweesi's house. The car driver tried to increase speed but they drove past the car and shot into it," said the 30-year-old man who declined to give his surname. "The motorbikes were new and the shooters looked professional. They weren't wearing masks but I didn't see their faces because I ran for cover." 10 YEARS Local Mayor Charles Sserunjogi said he heard "a hail of bullets— many shots— from my house nearby". He said Kaweesi had lived in the neighbourhood of Kulambiro for about 10 years. "I don't believe what I'm seeing right now. I knew Kaweesi well and met with him about a week and a half ago to discuss tarmacking the road he was shot on." Kaweesi rose to prominence as he spearheaded the police response to widespread opposition party protests following a controversial 2011 presidential election. After a stint as commander of Kampala Metropolitan Police, he was appointed director of operations and then head of human resources before assuming the role of main police spokesman in August 2016. TV SHOWS He appeared regularly on television talk shows, his most recent appearance being Thursday night on NTV, one of the major private channels in the country. Kaweesi's killing resembles the assassinations of other high profile legal and military personnel. In March 2015, Joan Kagezi, a senior public prosecutor, was shot in the street and the assailant escaped with an accomplice on a motorcycle. In November last year Ugandan army officer, major Sulaiman Kiggundu, former Allied Democratic Forces rebel, was shot in his car by gunmen travelling on two motorcycles. Both crimes remain unsolved. M7 REACTS President Museveni condemned the killing of Kaweesi by gunmen he described as thugs riding on motorcycles. As a consequence of these repeated murders in the city and other towns, the President has directed the immediate installation of cameras in all major towns of Uganda and along the highways. Mr Museveni further noted that the security personnel and all citizens should be vigilant and on the lookout for these “thugs who have made it a habit to use motorcycles to kill people.” “Remember the incidents of Joan Kagezi, Major Kiggundu (Mohammad) and a number of Sheikhs; they were killed in the same manner," he said. " If you notice such characters and especially if they are trailing a person with armed guards, you should take prompt action and challenge them,” added Mr Museveni.  