The National Assembly’s Finance, Trade and Planning Committee National has suspended meetings to consider a petition for the removal of Auditor-General Edward Ouko. The committee put off the hearings after they were served with a court order stopping the investigations and said they will seek Speaker Justin Muturi's advise. On Tuesday afternoon, Speaker Muturi said he will rule on Thursday whether the National Assembly will obey court order. "One would have expected that if a matter is pending in the House, you should be able to wait until the House is through with the matter," said Mr Muturi. The court order was issued Monday by Justice Enock Chacha Mwita in a case against Parliament filed by activist Okiya Omtatah. PETITION Justice Mwita is handling the case by Mr Omtatah, who argues that there is a spirited campaign to have Mr Ouko removed from office yet he is a diligent and dedicated worker. “Conservatory orders are hereby granted restraining the committee of the National Assembly from further proceeding with that petition. For the avoidance of doubt, no one should act on any recommendations made by the Finance, Planning and Trade Committee until the court determines this case,” he ruled. The committee was set to meet three witnesses in the petition seeking the removal of the Auditor-General. CONTRACT The Finance Committee was cheduled to meet three sets of witnesses Tuesday morning— audit firm Baker Tilly Merali’s, Kenya Human Rights Commission (KHRC) and James Ochieng Oduol. The audit firm was dragged into the proposed removal of Mr Ouko on the basis that it was the beneficiary of a contract from the Office of the Auditor-General at a time it was the external auditor of the same office recruited by Parliament. KHRC was expected to stand by Mr Ouko while it Mr Oduol is linked to OSI Kenya, the company from whom the Office of the Auditor-General bought software at a reportedly inflated price. The committee is chaired by Ainamoi MP Benjamin Lang’at   Mr Ouko has been accused of wasting public funds by accumulating a Sh1 million phone bill.