The Jubilee Party and Nasa leaders pitch camp at the coast this weekend as the area turns into a major battle ground for top coalitions ahead of the August 8 polls. President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto are set to launch a number of projects in Taita Taveta today before holding a major rally in Tononoka grounds in Mombasa tomorrow. Taita Taveta senator Dan Mwazo and woman representative Joyce Lay are expected to officially defect from ODM to Jubilee today. Jubilee gubernatorial hopeful Suleiman Shahbal has convened a meeting at Tononoka today to strategies for tomorrow's event Nasa principal Kalonzo Musyoka is slated to campaign for the outfit and Wiper aspirants in Kilifi today   He is to address Kilifi residents at Karisa Maitha ground in Kilifi town at 2 pm. Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi is also slated to address residents at Rabai grounds. President Kenyatta and Mr Ruto are expected in neighbouring Kaloleni constituency on Monday On Sunday, Mr Musyoka is to attend church service in Malindi Town before holding rallies in Gongoni, Magarini  and and Malindi Stadium. The Wiper leaders visit to Malindi follows President Kenyatta and Mr Ruto tour to the area on Thursday where they campaigned for MP Gideon Mung'aro to be governor. Mr Musyoka sojourn at the Coast also follows Nasa luminary Musalia Mudavadi's campaign in the area last weekend.   There has been heightened political activity at the Coast with Jubilee trying to eat into opposition support in an area that mostly voted for ODM in 2013 polls. President Kenyatta and Mr Ruto have been dishing goodies to locals to woo them to back their re-election. Coast political kingpin Hassan Joho has since announced major rallies in the six counties in the region to vouch for ODM leader Raila Odinga to be President. The events will culminate into a major rally at Tononoka grounds on March 27, where the Mombasa governor stated locals will state their political direction. The six Coast counties have a total of 1.5 million registered voters. Nasa affiliate parties candidates, mainly from Wiper and ODM are also battling for the control of the votes with Mombasa Senator Hassan Omar ruling out joint nominations for the outfit. Mr Omar says the Coast region is an opposition zone and the fielding of candidates by Nasa parties will not give JP room to penetrate the region.  