Kenya’s participation in the Fiba Africa Zone five Championship hangs in the balance after the basketball teams on Saturday failed to leave for Cairo, Egypt after it emerged that the government had cancelled their air tickets. Kenya Basketball Federation (KBF) first vice chairman Hilmi Ali expressed fears the teams might miss the competition which starts Sunday in Cairo. “We got a message from the Sports Ministry on Friday night that the government had cancelled the tickets, giving no reason for the  turn of events at the eleventh hour,” said Hilmi, who was to be the team’s chaperone. Fiba referee Ambrose Kisoi, who has been spearheading the teams’ quest for visas at the Egyptian Embassy in Nairobi was equally shocked by the development. “Sports Ministry officials who had cancelled the tickets said they thought we had failed to acquire the visas in time. Everyone has a visa. We got all our visas on Friday,” said Kisoi. KBF president Paul Otula, who is still optimistic the teams can leave for Cairo anytime from now, said Fiba has given Kenya a window till Monday to make it to Egypt. “Even though the games are starting tomorrow (Sunday), Fiba has agreed to push Kenyan matches to Tuesday and Wednesday. Egypt has also agreed to supplement Kenya’s accommodation provided the squad makes it to Cairo,” Otula said Otula has pleaded with the government to show mercy on the teams saying the players have given their all during the one month non residential training at Nyayo stadium in Nairobi. “KBF has done a lot to prepare the sides in the one month training. We hired the venue, kitted the teams, paid for their daily allowances and so we are just requesting the government to support the players with tickets and accommodation, the players are not even asking for an allowance from the government, only air tickets and accommodation,” said Otula. However, Otula warned that Kenya might suffer heavy consequences from Fiba should the country fail to make it to Egypt. “Kenya will be fined heavily if the teams don’t travel to Egypt." Contacted, Sports Kenya Director General Gordon Oluoch said the tickets were a responsibility of the National Sports Fund. However, National Sports Fund Chief Executive Officer Jackson Indakwa declined to comment on the matter or give reasons as to why the tickets were cancelled in the last minute.  