President Uhuru Kenyatta has asked Attorney General Githu Muigai to lift the ban suspending registration of churches, saying freedom of worship should not be curtailed. Addressing a rally in Voi town, President Kenyatta said it is not Prof Githu Muigai's work to ban the enlisting of churches. "Recently, the AG said no more churches would be registered. He should stop things that he doesn't understand," he said. He said the AG must rescind his directive. "If anyone wants to register a church, so long as he worships the God we know, he should be allowed to register to preach the word of God. We want religious leaders to enjoy freedom of worship." There has been an outcry from religious leaders following a proposal to regulate churches. Prof Muigai had said the government is considering coming up with fresh standards that would streamline operations of the societies. "The State Law Office has also invited various religious organisations, the Parliamentary Committee on Justice and Legal Affairs and the Commission for the Implementation of the Constitution for a meeting to be held on Friday November 14, 2014 to discuss proposed regulations on religious organisations operating in Kenya," the AG said. READ: Church leaders to AG: We want structured discussions READ: Churches reject AG regulation proposal The President asked the Taita Taveta government to amend a law requiring religious leaders to pay Sh10,000 to use public facilities. Pastors in the county recently protested over the law and handed their petition to the County Assembly. VOTE FOR PROGRESS With regards to polls, Mr Kenyatta said Jubilee Party has intensive plans that will facilitate its win in the August polls. He did not however specify them. He welcomed the county's Senator Dan Mwazo and Woman representative Joyce Lay to his party after decamping from ODM. The President won accolades when he directed head teachers in drought-hit areas nationwide not to send students home for lack of school fees. He said school heads who defy the order will be sacked. More importantly, he condemned use of incendiary language, pervasive tribalism and politics of hatred. On matters growth, he bragged that his government had recorded huge development in the past four years, especially in ending poverty. The issuance of title deeds to the residents is one of the achievements. "Ours is to change Kenyans' lives. We should stop politics of hatred, divisions and tribalism," he said. On unemployment, he said a dry port will be established in Voi to create jobs. President Kenyatta also launched Mine Institute at Pwani University. His deputy William Ruto implored the residents to vote for Jubilee Party candidates. "I want us to work together so that we can form the next government together," Mr Ruto said. Mr Ruto took a shot at the Opposition, Nasa, for not yet choosing a presidential flag-bearer. "If the four principals have failed to agree on a single candidate and party ideology, how could day solve issues facing 40 million Kenyans?" he asked. Reports by Lucas Barasa, Lucy Mkanyika and Brian Ocharo  