There was a very common phrase a few years ago when the new constitution for our beloved country Kenya was being discussed. It went something like I don t need to read or understand it. (Insert the name of your favoured politician) has already read it and reckons that it is okay .I think that that attitude of relying on others to make decisions for us has permeated the golfing fraternity as well. The Rules of Golf, just like the Kenyan constitution are readily available either as hard copies, mobile applications or even online. Most Kenyan golfers however choose to rely on hearsay for information on the Rules. It is not uncommon to hear discussions on a wrong decision made on golf courses on account of advice from a low-handicapped golfer. Before I earn the wrath of Uncle George for casting aspersions on low handicappers, isn t it true that most golfers would rather ask the opinion of golfers who are experienced rather than open a Rules of Golf book?The low handicappers are perceived to be more experienced in the game and will often be called upon to give rulings. Some of the times the rulings will be based on gut feeling since some of these experienced may not have read the Rules of Golf themselves but have learnt as they went along.For those that have attempted to read the Rules of Golf but felt like they were being given the runaround by R&amp;A and USGA, rest assured that there is hope. The Rules of Golf in their current state can be very frustrating for the golfer who just wants to have fun. If, for example, one was looking for the Rule that deals with the ball at rest moved by a spectator, they will find it under Rule 18-1 (ball at rest moved by outside agency). When reading the content of Rule 18-1, there is reference made to Rule 27-1 (ball out of bounds; ball not found within five minutes) under which there is mention of Rule 20-5 (making stroke from where previous stroke was made). By the time the player is through going through all these sections, they will have forgotten why they had picked the Rule book in the first place. There is good news. The new constitution is now out. The simpler set of Rules has been issued by the R&amp;A and USGA who are requesting golfers to go through them and give their views before August 31 this year. The Rules committee will then review the feedback and announce the final changes by mid next year. The new Rules of Golf will then take effect on January 1, 2019.The new set of Rules are much easier to read and they are now 24, down from the current 36. Some of the suggested changes are an exciting change from some of the current Rules that I have found to be unfair. Here are a few:1. In the current Rules, a player must give his/her caddie permission to mark their ball on the green. If the caddie marks the ball without permission, the player incurs a one-stroke penalty. In the new Rules, the caddie will be allowed to mark the ball on the green with or without permission.2. One is allowed to repair pitch marks and old hole plugs but they get penalised for repairing spike marks. The proposed Rules will allow players to repair them all.3. A golfer is not allowed to touch their line of putt on the green. If they do, they incur a two-stroke penalty in stroke play or loss of hole in match play. I am sure Babu from Golf Park will be happy to learn that this Rule will no longer apply in the new dispensation.There are a few new Rules that are a great departure from what we are currently used to. These will take most of the seasoned golfers a long time to get used to. Some of these are:1. We are used to having the flag removed when we are putting. In the new Rules, there will be no penalty for golfers to hole out with the flag in the hole.2. The penalty for moving one s ball accidentally whether in searching for it or error in judgement on the greens has always been one stroke. The penalty will be waived and replacing the ball will wash away the sin. 3. It will be possible to remove leaves and other loose impediments in bunkers without a penalty.4. The most radical overhaul of the existing Rules is the one on dropping the ball. Some golfers started playing the game when one had to drop the ball over their shoulder while facing the flag.We currently have to stand erect, hold the ball at shoulder height and at arm s length before we drop it. With the new Rules a drop from one inch will be admissible. All in all, the new Rules are much simpler and will make it easier for majority of golfers to read. Don t take my word for it though. Please have a look at them and share your views with the R&amp;A or Kenya Golf Union before the August 31. email print email print Stephen Morogo is charged alongside others with the murder of Mavoko three. Victims of Germain Katanga atrocities may receive over $16 million, say lawyers.