IN CAMEROONCameroon s defender Nicolas Nkoulou, who scored one of the two goals that saw the Indomitable Lions trounce Egypt at the 2017 Africa Cup of Nations in Gabon has announced he will take a break from international football.The former captain of the five-time African champions has represented Cameroon 74 times and after lifting the continental crown, he said he has a sense of having accomplished my duty for country. The 26-year-old, who plays for French Ligue 1 club side Olympique Lyon, has told Foot Mercato news website that the break will enable him to concentrate on his club career. I (have) decided to take a break from the national team selection, Nkoulou told Foot Mercato. I wish to concentrate on the objectives that I have set myself in club. He explained that since the beginning of his soccer career, defending the colours of Cameroon has always guided his steps." This mission was a driving force and was one of my priorities, Nkoulou, a close friend and former team mate of Cameroon and Marseille star St phane Mbia, said. He said he had long weighed the merits and demerits before the conclusion which he confessed was really difficult. Nkoulou said he hopes to come back to the Indomitable Lions stronger because a Lion never dies. Football analysts in Cameroon have described the defender s temporary break as timely. In as much as this isn t supposed to be Nkoulou s definite retirement from international football, the timing is just right coming after his glorious participation in 2017 Afcon, said Franklin Sone Bayen, football analyst and editor-in-chief of This is Sport newspaper.He described the defender s move as both a step off the stage when the applause is loudest and doing more gracefully, what over half a dozen Lions team mates did ahead of 2017 Afcon acrimoniously. Having delivered for the nation in Gabon, who can now reproach him (Nkoulou) for putting club over country even if only for a while? Mr Bayen questioned. email print email print Police say they plan to charge the Laikipia North lawmaker with the murder of Sosian ranch President says the refugee complex no longer serves the purpose it was designed for.