Kenyans will soo be able to tell genuine architects and quantity surveyors from fake ones by asking them  to produce a smart card to be issued by their regulator, the Board of Registration of Architects and Quantity Surveyors (BORAQS). Speaking at the launch of BORAQS’ first strategic plan on Monday this week, Ms Aidah Munano, the Principal Secretary in the Department Housing and Urban Development, expressed concern that unregistered people continue to fleece unsuspecting citizens by purporting to offer them conveyance and architectural services. In a speech read by the PS, the Cabinet Secretary in the Ministry of Transport, Infrastructure, Housing and Urban Development,  Mr James Macharia, expressed hope that in the near future, payments to, and by, architectural and quantity surveying firms will be effected through the smart cards. “We will extend the use of the e-card by partnering with other approving authorities and county governments regarding payments for statutory charges and building plan approvals, which will be effected via the card,” Mr Macharia said. STRICT REGULATIONS This development is also good news to industry professionals since the card, developed jointly with the National Bank of Kenya and supported by Visa, will allow architects and quantity surveyors a credit line which they can use to buy goods and services “The card holders will also enjoy discounts, rebates, reward points and such other benefits from the industry stakeholders, product manufacturers and suppliers,” revealed BORAQS chairperson Nathan Kureba, Ms Munano pointed out that in 2015, the country witnessed a thriving construction industry, registering a 13.6 per cent growth compared to 13.1 per cent in 2014. She added that the expansion, though commendable, needed to be strictly regulated in order to avoid construction disasters that claim dozens of lives as witnessed in  recent years. “Architectural and quantity surveying practices are highly technical and professional. For one to qualify as a registered architect or quantity surveyor, they are expected to sit and pass the BORAQS examinations,” said Mr Kureba. To this end the association has drawing up strict regulations for its members. The board released architects’ and quantity surveyors’ manuals which, according to Mr Macharia, will serve as essential reference resource documents for both professionals and university students. If you’re considering hiring either an architect or a quantity surveyor, it will behoove you to skim through a copy of the respective manuals so as to understand how to professionally relate with the experts and reap the maximum benefits from their services. “The manuals are written in an easy-to-comprehend manner because we are seeking to familiarise the public with the roles of architects and quantity surveyors,” Mr Kureba said.  