A top Kenyan law firm has once again been recognised internationally as a top-tier company in disputes resolution. Oraro and Company Advocates was voted one of the leading law companies in a 2017 report by Chambers Global released on March 16. “Litigation is a very strong area for Oraro & Company. They are very knowledgeable and well respected in this field,” read part of the report. This comes barely a week after the Law Society of Kenya, the Kenyan Bar’s premier professional association, inducted the firm’s senior partner George Oraro, into its Roll of Honour. The report also recognised four of the firm’s lawyers led by George Oraro, Chacha Odera, Walter Amoko and Georgina Ogalo-Omondi. Mr Oraro was named as a Band 1 disputes lawyer with experience at national, regional and international levels with the directory calling him an excellent litigator. In addition in April 2016, Mr Oraro was listed by Legal 500 as one of Kenya’s elite leading lawyers, in its Europe, Middle East and Africa 2016 guide to outstanding lawyers. DISPUTE RESOLUTION “Coming at a time when we are marking 40 years of the firm’s existence, these accolades are indeed wonderful news,” said Mr Oraro. Mr Odera, who has been cited for more than a decade by Chambers Global as a dispute resolution expert, was ranked as a Band 2 lawyer in both Employment and Dispute Resolution. For Mr Amoko, his sound legal arguments handed him ranking in two categories (Employment (Band 2) and Dispute Resolution (Band 3). In addition, the firm was for the first time recognised as a leading firm in Employment and ranked as a Band 2 firm with the Chambers Global recognising the work of one of its young and upcoming female lawyers, Ms Omondi. CONTINUED LEGAL SUPPORT “Practice in Employment and Labour Relations has grown steadily over the past couple of years and I endeavour to provide continued legal support to our clients who come from several sectors including aviation, banking and insurance and further help to build jurisprudence in this area,” said Ms Omondi. In October 2016, International Financial Law Review 1000 lauded the firm for its transactional work, noting it as one of Kenya’s leading Financial & Corporate firms and one of only a handful of outfits in the country to offer representation on both advisory matters and disputes. The full-service firm has 21 advocates and recently welcomed three new lawyers, Jacob Ochieng, Gibran Khalid Darr formerly of Tariq Khan and Associates Advocates and Sandra Kavagi formerly of Lutta and Company Advocates who both joined the firm’s disputes team.  