Murang’a Governor Mwangi Wa Iria has accused his political opponents of trying to engineer a “coup” in the county so as to undermine his leadership. Speaking to journalists on Wednesday at the Jubilee Party headquarters in Nairobi, Mr Wa Iria said that some local politicians are interfering with the elected Jubilee officials in Murang’a County by unprocedurally removing them from their positions and replacing them with their cronies. “Some local politicians are creating division within party officials and also funding coups. They went ahead and interfered with the setup of the party. They engineered an internal coup, removed the chairman and secretary general,” said the governor. He accused the politicians of engaging in “extremely retrogressive politics” which he said should not be happening in modern days by trying to destabilise the party ahead of the nominations. CALL FOR HELP “This committee has only been in force for a month or so and now it is having its third chairman, third secretary general, and a second coordinator. We are calling upon the party to get involved so that they can put the matter in the right perspective,” he said. Mr Wa Iria said that he met with the head of Jubilee Party secretariat, Mr Raphael Tuju, who promised an investigation into the matter and promised to give a feedback by next Friday. “We have expressed our concerns with Raphael because as a governor, I would like to have a very stable party office. “He told us that as the head of the secretariat, they [are] investigating the matter [to know] who caused that small coup within the office of the executive. We have agreed that they are going to deal with the matter by giving us solutions,” added Wa Iria. The governor added that he is in Jubilee to stay and no amount of pressure from his political foes will drive him away from the party. “We do support Jubilee and we are here because Jubilee is an open party which subscribes to openness and consultations,” he said.   Two residents had sued demanding revocation of spending plan passed by MCAs.