Finland’s Oliver Lindell, who fired in one at the par three-13th hole, the first ever hole-in-one in the 49-year history of the Barclays Kenya Open, may not take the car back home to Finland. The 19-year-old professional Lindell, who is playing in the Kenya Open for his first time, said was very excited to have won such an award but it would be difficult to take it home since only Left Hand Drive cars are allowed in Finland. “We were discussing about the car during dinner last night, but even at the time I was on the tee at the 13th, I did not remember that we were on the hole where the car was. “I realised the ball was in the hole when I drew closer to the hole. This is very exciting as it made me play better in the remaining 12 holes as I had started with an eagle three at the 10th,’’ said Lindell, born in Finland on October 29, 1998. This is his biggest achievement in his short career. The Ford Ranger WorldTrak is worth Sh6.9 million which is more than what the winner of this year’s Open will earn. Lindell’s biggest earning so far is 16,000 Euro during last August’s Made In Denmark event where he tied on 26th place with four under par 280. During yesterday’s second round, Lindell made two birdies at the 17th and 18th, after his 7-iron hole in one at the 13th, . “Played the first nine which was our back nine with lots of excitement and I real did not care much even for those two bogeys I had’’. He birdied the first and fourth holes but bogeyed the second and sixth for an impressive six under par 65 and a two rounds total of four under 138. He is comfortably in for the final two rounds of this year’s championship which he said was his first major event to play. Speaking while handing over the car keys to Lindell, CMC Motors Group General Manager (Passenger Cars) Patrick Amenya, said CMC was very proud that for the first time, a player had won the car. "History has been made and I’m glad we are part it of it. We will definitely offer another car, probably a better one," said Amenya. Kenya Open Golf Limited’s Publicity and Sponsorship director, Kathleen Kihanya, said KOGL was delighted that some one had won the hole-in-one car for the first time after 49 years. This was Lindell’s second hole-in-one in his career, although his first one was during a practice round in Spain last year.   Finland’s Oliver Lindell fired a 7-iron into the hole at 173m (191 yards) par three 13th.