Orange Democratic Party (ODM) officials led by Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho have concluded their two-day tour of Lamu County with a promise of trouncing Jubilee in the August 8 polls. The ODM leaders urged Lamu residents to vote for the party and ensure the Jubilee administration is defeated during the General Election. Addressing residents at the Mkunguni square on Lamu Island on Saturday, the leaders gave various recommendations to be met as Kenyans prepare for the elections. Mr Joho, also the ODM deputy party leader, called on the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) to publish the list of all registered voters in the country and release it to the public before elections day. He said he was suspicious that the BVR machines would fail during the elections. “Every software must have a license and be updated from time to time. I am aware that the license for the BVR machines was issued in 2011. So far neither the software nor the license for the machines has been updated. IEBC also have an obligation to publish the list of all registered voters and give it to the respective political parties so that they can be aware of the number of voters expected to participate in the August 8 elections,” said Mr Joho. JUBILEE HAS FAILED On his part, Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi pointed fingers at Jubilee, saying it has totally failed the Lamu people and Kenyans at large. Mr Kingi asked the national government to lift a ban on fishing which was imposed on Lamu East fishermen. The Governor expressed his discontent towards the fishing ban which has been in place for the past five years and which has dealt a blow to the fish industry in the area. He said there is no reason for the government to continue imposing the night ban on fishing especially in Kiunga where the fishing sector is the sole income earner for the residents. “The fish industry is the backbone of Lamu’s economy,” he said. Taita Taveta Governor John Mruttu said time had come for Kenyans to vote for a government that will unify all Kenyans. He said Kenyans need an administration that is capable of solving historical injustices such as land alienation, poor education and road infrastructure, a problem which has cut across all the six Coast counties. “We should not elect a leader based on tribe or religion. Let us come together and vote for people that will unite us and focus on development. That can only be achieved by voting for ODM,” said Mr Mruttu. Jomvu MP Badi Twalib questioned why the government was reluctant in withdrawing the Kenyan troops from Somalia. “The Jubilee government has been very reluctant in taking the KDF out of Somalia. We need them out so that our country can remain safe,” said Mr Twalib. The leaders also accused the government of not honouring the promises given to the Lamu people including employment of Lamu Youth at the Lamu Port South Sudan Ethiopia Transport (Lapsset) corridor project. “The government had promised to employ 1,500 youth at the Lapsset project about five years ago. As we speak, no one has been employed at the port. This is enough reason for the Jubilee to be voted out,” said ODM Secretary General, Dr Agnes Zani.  