Muthaiga Golf Club’s Greg Snow went up by one shot after the close of round two in this year’s Jamii Telkom PGK Masters at the par 72 Sigona Golf Course on Wednesday. Fresh from the Mena Tour Qualifying School in Morocco, Snow picked up birdies on the fourth and eighth and at the 13th and 15th. He, however, missed the greens on the straight par four-16th for three under par 69 and a two rounds total of four under par 140, to go up by a shot from overnight leader Dismas Indiza of Mumias. “My game is good. I had no problem except missing the green on regulation at the 16th. The first nine greens are slightly quicker than the back nine so one has to adjust accordingly,” said Snow. Indiza picked up a double bogey six at the second hole, and dropped two more shots at the 14th and 16th but with birdies on the fourth and fifth and at the 15th for one over par 73 and a two day aggregate of three under par 141, leaving home pro John Wangai and Nyanza’s David Odhiambo a shot behind. Wangai birdied the third and ninth and bogeys at the second, fifth and seventh holes of the front nine with more birdies at the 13th, 14th and 15th on the back where he also picked up a bogey at the 17th for his second straight 71 to tie in third place with Odhiambo. Limuru’s John Kagiri dropped from the third to seventh place after a 75 in the second round. A total of 48 players including some of the leading amateurs who are preparing for this year’s Barclays Kenya Open are featuring in the event being sponsored by Jamii Telkom. From Sigona, the pros will then move to Karen Country Club for this weekend’s KCB Karen Masters where US$ 15,000 (Sh1.5 million) will be at stake in the event being held to mark Karen’s 80th anniversary. Professional Golfers of Kenya (PGK) captain John Wangai said the Karen event will be good for the locals as they will be playing on almost similar condition to the 2017 Barclays Kenya Open at Muthaiga. “This is also good for our participation at the forthcoming Kenya Open. The Road to Kenya Open qualifiers, and the ongoing Jamii PGK Masters will boost us immensely in terms of form,” said Wangai. All the local pros listed to play in the Open, will be in action at Muthaiga. They will be joined by visiting pros from various European countries who are also headed to the Open. For the weekend event, KCB Group Chief Operating Officer Samuel Makome said: “KCB will continue being at the centre of supporting the growth of this sport. We believe in supporting great ideas that will enable the country’s progress.” Tickets to access the course will be retailing at Sh500 covering the entire event. Among the top pros expected are Englishman Robert Dinwiddie. He will be the man to watch.   A field of 49 players including leading amateurs turned up for the event.