Bandits on Tuesday morning attacked a police vehicle in Mukutani in Tiaty, Baringo County, killing two women. A child survived and is in custody of police in Marigat in the fresh attack that follows a relative lull after a security operation was launched in the area two weeks ago. The operation was launched by Deputy President William Ruto where he issued a shoot-to-kill order. Makutani is among the 19 gazetted as disturbed and dangerous by Interior Cabinet Secretary Joseph Nkaissery. BANK In the daring attack on Tuesday morning, the bandits sprayed bullets on the police vehicle killing the two, who had hiked a lift from Mosiro centre in Kiserian and were heading to Kabarnet town. Confirming the incident, Baringo County Police Commandant Peter Ndung’u said the victims were heading to a bank in Kabarnet to collect money for orphans. The police boss however said the police boss could have been caught in a crossfire as two communities fought over livestock theft. “The reports we have received indicate that suspected Ilchamus bandits raided Koimut village in the morning and made away with unknown number of livestock," he said. "The Pokots pursued the bandits but they were ambushed. The police vehicle was caught in the crossfire." HELICOPTERS He said police had been deployed to pursue the bandits. A resident, Mr Kipkemboi Morwess, said it was scary that the bandits could attack a police vehicle and kill people. “How safe are people if they can be attacked while in the company of police officers? The safest vehicle for civilians to board in the volatile area is a police vehicle,” said Mr Morwess. The incident happens barely a day after Rift Valley Regional Coordinator Wanyama Musiambo said they would deploy more police helicopters to pursue bandits in the region. FLEE HOMES Meanwhile, residents are fleeing their homes in Nasolot sub-location on the border of West Pokot and Turkana counties following a fresh bandit attack that left two herders dead. The residents are fleeing to Kapenguria town and others to the neighbouring villages across the border in Uganda. Passengers plying Kapenguria-Lodwar road are being escorted by police officers. Speaking to the Nation on phone, West Pokot acting County Commissioner Khalif Abdulahi confirmed that two people were killed and more than 200 cattle stolen at the weekend. PEACE TALKS Mr Khaliff said more police officers had been deployed to the area. “Suspected bandits from Turkana County attacked Lami Nyeusi and stole livestock. Residents decided to pursue them but they were turned back by police officers in Kainuk. There was a confrontation and one person was shot,” he said. Leaders from the area led by West Pokot County Senator John Lonyangapuo said they were planning to hold peace talks in the area. “We are talking with leaders from Turkana County to ensure that peace prevails .We urge other leaders to join hands so as to end the escalating insecurity incidents,” he said. Former Information Cabinet Minister Samuel Poghisio urged residents to embrace peace.   Operation seeks to flush out bandits and illegal herders in Baringo North and South.