The Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) and the Head of the Public Service denied the Public Accounts Committee information as it sought to establish former Devolution minister Anne Waiguru’s culpability in the scandal at the National Youth Service (NYS). The committee says in the report tabled in the National Assembly last Thursday that the DCI did not respond to a request to verify a chart of telephone calls between key suspects in the scam. The chart had been submitted by Ms Waiguru who had initially said it came from the DCI but, when pressed on its source, said it came from “a friend” and was easily accessible in this technological age. When it was presented, it was treated as a sterling piece of evidence containing, as it did, records showing that even Deputy President William Ruto’s personal assistant, Farouk Kibet, spoke to key suspect Ben Gethi 262 times. There were also alleged records of calls between Mr Gethi and Mr Mangiti, the Principal Secretary; Aden Harakhe and Mr Gethi and Mr Gethi and Samuel Wachenje, the former Finance Director at the National Youth Service. “The chart was replete with inconsistencies. A cursory look at the chart showed that the CS had not placed a single call to her PS in the ministry for a prolonged period, a scenario the members deemed illogical. The committee wrote to the Directorate of Criminal Investigations to verify the telephone chart, among those made by Ms Waiguru herself. The DCI had not reverted by the time of tabling this report,” the committee said. Mr Kinyua was also said to have refused to co-operate with a request for information deemed important in establishing Ms Waiguru’s responsibility for overseeing procurement at the ministry. ENHANCED FUNCTIONS “The committee notes that aware of the existence of the enhanced functions of Cabinet secretaries as resolved in the 11th Cabinet meeting of 2nd December, 2014, it wrote to Dr Joseph Kinyua, Head of Public Service, to avail minutes of the said Cabinet meeting. However, as at the time of adopting this report, the said minutes had not been availed to the committee,” it reported. By the time of publishing this story, both the DCI Ndegwa Muhoro did not respond to our requests to comment on the report while the government spokesman Eric Kiraithe, who normally speaks on behalf of Mr Kinyua, declined to comment on the matter. A member of the committee told the Nation that the failure to get hold of this document undermined their work and delayed its adoption for a considerable time. At one point, a member of the team presented a copy of the Nation’s story on the enhancement of Cabinet Secretaries’ roles but was rebuffed on the basis that Parliament cannot rely on a press report. At the end, the decision was reached on Tuesday morning to include the cautionary line in the report. PAC referred to the Cabinet resolution as it apportioned responsibility and also relied on witness statements on the significant role Ms Waiguru made in pushing changes at the NYS including the change of leadership there that placed Adan Harakhe in a major role in managing funds. “Corroborated evidence by several officers of the ministry and the NYS who appeared before the committee pointed to a domineering CS who bulldozed her way and assigned a host of “advisers” to monitor operations. She single-handedly steered the five-point vision plan and, on a number of occasions, issued verbal orders on operations,” said the committee. DISCIPLINARY LETTERS Ms Waiguru also issued disciplinary letters to some officers of the service. PAC said the former minister was among at least 16 individuals it found culpable for the mess at the Service that resulted in the theft of at least Sh1.8 billion. Still, the committee could be accused of being inconsistent in its findings and recommendations when the report comes up for debate. Some of the individuals have already been arraigned in relation with the theft while some, like Ms Waiguru, would be the subject of yet more investigations if MPs agree to adopt the report tabled last Thursday.   Others, like Adan Harakhe and former Principal Secretary Peter Mangiti, should face additional charges and would suffer more ramifications if the recommendations are adopted as recommended by the committee. Apart from Ms Waiguru and Mr Harakhe, the other individuals named are former NYS bosses Japhter Rugut and Dr Nelson Githinji, Mr John Munywoki, who was the Chief Finance Officer at the Devolution ministry when the money was being stolen, Mr Naftali Githinji, who was head of accounting at NYS, and Mr Samuel Wachenje, who was the director of finance at the same institution. Others are Mr Hendrick Pilisi, who was the head of procurement at NYS, suspects Josephine Kabura Irungu, Benson Gethi and John Kago, plus The Consulting House, the firm owned by political commentator Mutahi Ngunyi. Out of the Box Solutions, owned by former radio presenter Angela Angwenyi, and Alpha Mercantile Limited were also found culpable in the loss of funds at the National Youth Service. TWO BANKS Law firms Ogola and Company Advocates, MM Gitonga & Company Advocates and Sing’oei, Murkomen & Sigei Advocates were found to have been involved in money laundering. The Central Bank and Family Bank were the financial institutions that were found to have been involved. Already former employees of Family Bank have already been charged for their alleged role in the fraud. In the recommendations, however, PAC appeared to have been inconsistent in stating what action ought to be taken on individuals and institutions it found culpable for the string of actions through which the institution’s money was siphoned out. Questions could also be raised on whether it is possible for the committee to recommend charges against an individual or company in the way that it did regarding the law firms. Despite pointing out in its findings that the firm co-owned by Elgeyo-Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen received money from Out of the Box Solutions Ltd, the latter company did not feature anywhere in the recommendations. Already, Mr Murkomen has set off a fight with the committee. Hours after the report was released, he said the recommendations against him were harsh because he refused to bribe committee members. “We are victims of this incompetence and unschooled behaviour because we became forthright without being compromised by the committee,” he said. Opposition MPs are also bound to wonder how it is that Mr Farouk Kibet, who confessed in his submission that he asked Mr Gethi for a loan yet the money was deposited in his account by Ms Kabura, was left out of the recommendations. KABURA LIED Mr Kibet could, however, be taken to have been a positive witness as he helped the committee establish that Mr Gethi and Ms Kabura lied under oath when they met the team. “The committee found that they indeed knew each other, as evidenced by the written submission from Mr Farouk Kibet. In his presentation, Mr Kibet claimed to have borrowed money from Mr Benson Gethi, an acquaintance, to the tune of Sh1.5 million. This money was deposited in his account by Ms Josephine Kabura. Mr Kibet confirmed to have paid back the loan to Mr Gethi in cash,” the committee reported. The committee also named eight individuals who made several approvals into the Integrated Financial Management Information System (Ifmis) for payments to MS Kabura’s firms in the most clear-cut example of brazen theft, where a zero was added to each figure and a payment of Sh79.1 million grew 10 times to Sh791 million. They are: Ruth Njeri Hihu, Charles Onsare Nyaachi, Regina Nyambura Mungai, Okello Fredrick Nasiche, Mbuthia Mary Wangui, Kamau Ezekiel Karanja, Jared Nyadimo Okumu and Leah Githuku Wambui. Ms Hihu was the approver for the holder of the Authority to Incur Expenditure in Ifmis of part of the payment of the Sh791 million. Fake contract FRAUDULENT SUPPLIES Mr Nyaachi invoiced in Ifmis the payment of Sh791 million and further invoiced in the system fraudulent supplies using a fake contract for a total Sh609.2 million, the committee concluded. Ms Mungai was the officer who encumbered in Ifmis the payment of the Sh791 million, later did the same for the fraudulent supplies of Sh609 million and later requested and was granted the ‘PO User’ in Ifmis the fraudulent procurement of goods worth Sh695.4 million. Mr Okello was the requester in Ifmis for part of the fraudulent supplies of Sh609.2 million while Ms Mbuthia was the validator for part of the same supplies. She also validated the payment of an extra Sh12.5 million to The Consulting House. Mr Karanja validated the fraudulent Sh609.2 million while Mr Okumu was the requester in Ifmis for the Sh12.5 million extra payment for the firm owned by Mr Ngunyi, the political commentator. Ms Wambui was found by PAC to have been the ‘PO User’ in Ifmis for the double payment to Mr Ngunyi’s firm.   Mr Gethi and Ms Makena have denied charges of altering tender documents.