Payments for infrastructure contracts worth Sh1.3 billion in Kitui County now hang in the balance after detectives from the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission carted away crucial documents in surprise raid. The EACC officers investigating wide ranging procurement irregularities raided several county government offices last week and took away dozens of documents including 89 local service orders (LSOs). The seized documents touch on restricted tenders for various drifts and road works projects done by the county Ministry of Infrastructure and Urban Development in the 2015/2016 financial year. A select group of merchants who benefited from the restricted tendering will have to wait longer for their payments as the ongoing corruption investigations have in effect halted any payments for the contracts. DEMANDED DOCUMENTS According to a letter dated February 24 seen by the Nation, EACC has demanded a long list of other documents to help ascertain if the projects in question were actually done or there was a scheme to steal public funds. “You are hereby required to provide our officers with the under listed original documents that are related to tenders,” EACC’s director of investigations Abdi Mohamud said in the letter to the county secretary. The anti-graft agency wants to examine the entire procurement process and has demanded 23 sets of accounting documents including works inspection reports, certificates indicating works done, payment vouchers and the county government’s bank statements as from June 1, 2014 to February 17, 2017. The county secretary is also required to provide bank account details for the companies said to have done the projects under investigations, approval for the use of restricted tendering method and all bid documents submitted by the bidders. COMPETITIVE TENDERING EACC wants the county government to explain why the 89 contracts amounting to millions of shillings were not subjected to competitive tendering process as per procurement laws. The corruption inquiry means it may take several weeks for the detectives to conclude the investigations and therefore delay or cancel some of the payments. Several senior county officials from Treasury, Works and procurement departments have recorded statements with EACC in connection with the investigations. The EACC raid, coming in the wake of the fourth devolution conference in Nakuru, is likely to give Kitui Governor Julius Malombe’s opponents political ammunition ahead of the August elections. ELECTIONS Last week, EACC said governors, county officials and members of county assemblies who have corruption-related court cases should be locked out of the elections. “So as to stop the misuse and rampant wastage of billions of shillings given to counties, we will go for those who have enriched themselves using taxpayers’ resources. “They will be taken to court and those hoping to vie barred from getting clearance for nomination,” said Mr Michael Mubea, the chief executive of operations at EACC. The commission’s move, which will also affect national government officials seeking elective posts, could lead to court battles. The EACC, the Kenya Revenue Authority and the Directorate of Criminal Investigations are mandated to clear all aspirants before they present their certificates to the electoral commission. As part of its changed strategy to go after corruption in counties, EACC has opened investigations into unexplained quick rise in fortunes of governors, their spouses, children, county officials and their aides. Mr Mubea said ongoing investigations into procurement issues, crooked employment and loss of funds are already at an advanced stage in Nairobi, Migori, Siaya, Busia, Murang’a, Nyamira and Kilifi counties.  