Favourites reached the semi-finals of Nairobi Region Term One Secondary School Games on Saturday at Nairobi School and State House Girls.Rugby 15s champions Upper Hill led Buru Buru Girls (basketball), Moi Girls (hockey) in booking their slots in Sunday s last four. Upper Hill will battle it out with Ofafa Jericho in the first rugby 15s semi-final match, while Lenana take on hosts Nairobi School.Buruburu Girls, who are the regional basketball champions, secured their last four slot after they led their Pool after two convincing wins. They beat Ngara Girls 47-6 in their opening encounter before seeing of Raila Educational Centre 46-8 in their second match.Guards Stacy Ongwae and Shantal Kiboe were instrumental in Buru Buru s good start in the regional games. Buruburu coach Julius Otieno is confident his team can go all the way and retain the gong. It was rather straight forward win for us but the real test lies in the semis. We are ready to face anyone, Otieno said. Last year finalists Parklands Arya also made it to the semis after they topping Pool B with two wins. The Nairobi West sub-region champions beat Moi Girls 61-35 in their first match before thumping Kayole South 61-11 in the second encounter.Arya coach Godfrey Mwaloma is eyeing another final clash with his Buru Buru counterpart. We are on course to reach the final and this time we want to make amends for last year s loss, he said.Boys champions Upper Hill were also on course to reach the semis after they won their opening encounter. The national champions whitewashed Muhuri Muchiri 110- 3 in a lopsided encounter.Upper Hill s Riek Machuol showed his class, scoring an impressive 32 points to lead his team in the contest.In girls hockey, Parklands Arya are through to the last four after they won all their pool matches. They beat Kianda School 3-0 with goals from Fatuma Omar, Scholastica Wambua and Anisa Mohammed giving them the three points.Arya then saw off former champions Hillcrest 2-0 in their second match. Wambua and Rhoda Naisula scored in the thrilling encounter.The games end on Sunday. email print email print Kaya Tiwi Secondary from Kwale County became the only team to retain their title on Saturday. The Nasa leaders are seeking for support to unseat Jubilee. #ElectionsKE Political parties are not responsible for development, says Mvurya. #ElectionsKE