Lawyer Gitobu Imanyara has joined the race for the Imenti Central parliamentary seat, saying he will speak to President Uhuru Kenyatta and opposition leaders to determine the political party he will use. Addressing residents at his Mariene home on Wednesday, Mr Imanyara said he had heeded to calls from residents to come from retirement and seek re-election. The former two-term MP said he is coming back to restore the image of the constituency. "I have listened to my people and I accept to vie for the Imenti Central parliamentary seat. I have been told that the work I did as an MP between 2007 and 2013 has gone to waste. The police posts I built using the Constituency Development Fund are still vacant," Mr Imanyara said.JUBILEE OR NASA?He added, "I am requesting for two weeks to hold talks with the Jubilee Party and the National Super Alliance coalition to establish what they have to offer. I will announce my party and launch the campaign after the deliberations." The former MP said he will be talking to the President, opposition leaders Raila Odinga, Kalonzo Musyoka and Musalia Mudavadi before choosing a party. "As a leader and resident of Meru, I have realised that some leaders have made promises that are never delivered. I want to know what the parties have to offer before committing myself," he said. Mr Imanyara announced that he would retire from active politics after he lost the Meru senatorial bid to Mr Kiraitu Murungi in 2013.He was first elected to Parliament in 1997, lost in 2003 and was re-elected in 2007.He will now face incumbent Gideon Mwiti, Meru County Secretary Gideon Kimathi, Land Development and Governance Institute executive director Mwenda Makathimo, and Mr Moses Nthurima, an official of the Kenya Union of Post-Primary Education Teachers (Kuppet) in the race for MP. email print email print Mr Imanyara to meet opinion leaders before making final decision. Stephen Morogo is charged alongside others with the murder of Mavoko three. Victims of Germain Katanga atrocities may receive over $16 million, say lawyers.