The search for a candidate to manage the National Social Security Fund is facing strong political interference that has led to delays, the Sunday Nation has learnt. The search has been turned into a game of musical chairs as a senior politician “pushes for the appointment of his ally”. Since early last year, the fund has been looking for a managing trustee after Mr Richard Lang’at was suspended on April, 2015. Mr Lang’at was suspended over alleged corruption linked to the Sh5 billion Tassia housing scheme. He was later cleared of the allegations but left last year amid controversy on his generous exit package. READ: NSSF boss exit pay stirs debate READ: Tassia plan flawed, NSSF now admits Mr Anthony Omerikwa has been acting since 2015. Sources claim a senior Jubilee politician has been pushing to have his preferred candidate picked. The intrigues have also sucked in the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission and the courts. The fund’s board chairman Gideon Ndambuki did not respond to questions the Sunday Nation sent him. He proposed a meeting later. But a source familiar with the delayed recruitment, who spoke in confidence, said: “Politicians see the fund as a cash cow.” The fund manages almost Sh200 billion and has had a controversial past with influential individuals accused of looting over the years. The position of managing trustee is considered one of the riskiest with a high turnover. The scheme advertised for the position on September 9, 2016. But the anti-graft commission indicated the top three applicants did not meet the minimum qualifications. HIRING CANCELLED Former acting managing trustee Tom Odongo came top in interviews, followed by Hosea Kili, the chief executive of the Local Authorities Pension Trust Fund, while Dr Omerikwa was third. However, the anti-graft team on November 21, 2016 wrote to PwC clearing Mr Kili, Mr Paul Mwai and Mr Henry Kyanda. Having been sacked from the fund, Mr Odongo was hired by the Kenya Airways in February 2014 and his place was taken up by Hope Mwashumbe who was also kicked out, paving the way for Mr Lang’at in April 2014. The board was intensely divided over the shortlist as a senior politician got into the mix. The fund cancelled the recruitment and re-advertised. An insider says the anti-corruption team just writes letters claiming that certain people are under investigation without giving details. Cotu (Central Organisation of Trade Unions), which has a seat on the board, took issue with the re-advertisement alleging possible fixing of a politically connected person. “What we want from the President is to make sure board appoints a capable, non-corruptible Kenyan,” Cotu deputy secretary-general Ernest Nadome had said. The fund again advertised for the position last month but this may have met resistance again. Somebody took the fund to court and some candidates have also not been cleared and now we cannot proceed, the insider said. Cotu is represented in the board by the secretary general Francis Atwoli. Other board members are Mrs Jacqueline Mugo who represents the employers, Labour ministry Principal Secretary Khadijah Kassachoon, Ms Damaris Wanjiru Muhika, Mr Mutua Kilaka, Ms Teresa Maina, Patrick Ogola and Erastus Mwongera.  