The journey from classroom to the apex of your desired career, whether in the business world, the corporate world or the academia, is one that needs many bridges to move you from point A to point B. A wise man once said that if you want to walk fast, walk alone, but if you want to walk far, then walk together. What this means is that no man is an island, therefore there is need for all of us to connect and work with other people. A bridge is what connects us with the people that have interests similar to ours. For any bridge to be useful, it has to be constructed appropriately, using the right materials. This bridge is networking, while the appropriate construction material is proper networking. You might have heard it all; attend events and meet people in your field of interest and make sure they have your CV in their databases, get contacts and befriend these people on social media and follow their companies on Twitter and try to get in touch with them. But just what defines proper networking? What are the various methods of networking? And what are some of the mistakes that people make in the process of networking? Jerome Morrissey, the CEO of Global E-Schools and Communities Initiative (GESCI), an UN-founded organisation based in Nairobi and which has a presence in 16 African countries, reflects on how difficult it is for the youth of Kenya and Africa in general to get jobs presently. He makes three suggestions towards addressing this problem. “Firstly, universities must work hand in hand with industry to identify current market place skills requirements and quickly respond with relevant technology-driven courses to meet industry needs. Make space by reducing the proliferation of humanities and communications/media courses but do not cut art and design-based programmes.” ENORMOUS SHORTAGES OF SKILLED LABOUR He adds, “There is an enormous shortage of skilled labour in the IT industries across the world due to a shortage of relevant courses and poor choices by students.” “Secondly, investment in digital technologies and their infusion in modernised courses and curricula across the Technical Vocational Education and Training, TVET, sector to prepare for existing jobs and for the millions of new IT–based service jobs now beginning to emerge. Finally, self-employment and the creation of millions of small start-ups will make a huge dint on youth unemployment.” He however cautions that the spirit or skills of entrepreneurship are not taught through a few lectures on a course. It is something that is put into practice and accompanied by a few low-cost supports. “As regards existing graduates and trained young people, often, a prolonged effort is required at job hunting if they are to land their dream jobs. Increase your relevance in the job market by taking on additional technical trainings, if possible. Find and attend suitable workshops in your area of interest, research internship and volunteering and offer to work for lunch and travel money in a company or organisation as a way of learning, gaining experience, meeting influential people to impress and widening your networks.”   “It is very naive to expect that you will be given a job or even get called for an interview simply because you emailed your CV to a company head that you met somewhere. This head probably has 500 other CVs that look exactly like yours. Networking should be a mentality, at work 24/7 whenever, however and wherever you meet people.” “Working as a volunteer or as an intern will bring you in contact with a variety of potentially helpful people and in influential positions, and you will have an opportunity to show your capabilities, your eagerness to carry out tasks and to impress an employer. This can lead to a job offer or to further references to the right people,” he concludes. Networking remains a very important element of the development of your career no matter what stage you are at. But like everything else that you do, approach it critically and learn the ropes so as to gain fully. Here are five young people for whom networking has given a major boost.  Lyndah Amaitsa, 24, a freelance journalist and auditor at Smollan Kenyan Limited, says that networking accounts for all the opportunities that she has had in her career. “I made my first proper networks at a function in Nakuru County, while still at university. I was involved in a piece of investigative journalism that a select number of universities do with their journalism students in collaboration with the European Journalism Centre. This function brought together many of the individuals I looked up to in my projected career, such as Dennis Okari, Alex Chamwada, John Allan Namu and Joseph Warungu, who worked with the BBC. I created many contacts then and a good number of them linked me up to job opportunities,” she says. For instance, during this function, she met the owner of Reality Media Limited, who linked her up with a couple of voice over opportunities, an area she is interested in. She also met an editor who later negotiated space for her in the Accountant Magazine, which published several of her articles. “I also met the owner of Megapix, who in turn linked me up with quotation jobs in public relations. My current job is as a result of networking as well; one morning a friend I had met at a previous event called me and informed me that she was going for a job interview and would like me to accompany her. I did, and to cut a long story short, I ended up getting a job.” Lyndah, who describes herself as spontaneously social, points out that it is very difficult to get information about opportunities if people do not know about you. “When you meet people at events, tell them about yourself and exchange contacts. They might call to connect you to opportunities that they hear about.”  Alvina Gachungu, 24, is a TV host, actress and singer. She describes networking as the bedrock of everything that she has become. “Networking got me a screen job. When I was in Form three, I came across a familiar face from TV on Facebook and I messaged him. I did not get a reply, but six years later, I landed a role on Hapa Kule News. Due to the work I had put in the field of acting, and also because I constantly posted my work on social media, I captured the attention of this familiar face, hence the role on Hapa Kule News, which airs every Monday on NTV at 7.30pm. I am also a host with Goma Lotto Live Baze and a karaoke host in various clubs in the city,” Alvina explains. Her networking and contact base has grown largely due to the many auditions that she has attended in her acting journey. “I have attended over 500 auditions and have made many friends and networks during these auditions. Through these networks, I get updates on other auditions and job opportunities.” Alvina’s initial lessons on the importance of face-to-face encounters with people came with her first job. She realised that being in the same room with people yielded more results. “When I started out, I had an online talk show where I interviewed celebrities. I made contact with these celebs during various events, where I walked up to them and introduced myself. This taught me that it is one thing to be given someone’s number and another to meet them in person – when you meet someone in person, it is hard for them to say no to you,” she says of her experience. Networking, she says, has been of great benefit to her. “Networking is everything, it is what has gotten me where I am today; had I not said hello to the person in front of me and behind me on the audition line, I would not have met influential people in the entertainment industry. They are too many to name, but I am truly grateful to everyone who has given me a chance,” she says. And to those young people who are yet to start networking, Alvina says, “Man is not an island. Speak to that person on the bus and smile more often, it makes you more welcoming and approachable. Above all, rehearse your elevator speech beforehand because you might meet a busy person who does not have the time for small talk. Be brief, polite and always carry a business card with you. Most importantly, don’t give up, because not everyone will be receptive to you.  Duncan Gwaro 29, the founder of 24:7 Entertainment, believes that the power of networking is very huge if well harnessed. “I started my business because of my interest in the entertainment Industry. I tried to penetrate the market but it was really difficult at the beginning. At about this time, I got a chance to attend a Creatives Entrepreneurship Training at the British Council. Soon after the training, I received a call from an organisation seeking my services, that is when I realised just how powerful networking is,” he says. According to Duncan, networking is the single most powerful marketing tactic that can accelerate and sustain success for any individual or organisation. “Networking is about making connections and building enduring, mutually beneficial relationships. After my first training, I made a point of attending various events and meeting people from different industries. Networking has really helped my business to grow. Through meeting and interacting with different people, I get to learn about opportunities that might have otherwise bypassed me,” Duncan says. He adds that it is through networking that he has been able to expand his business besides getting updates about industry trends. To give the desired results, he cautions, networking has to be done properly. “It only pays when you leave a good impression about your expertise on the people that you come across.” This is through how you present yourself – does your confidence shine through? How unique are your services? Did you convince those you met of your expertise? And no, networking forums are not just about exchanging contacts because ultimately, it is not about who you know, rather, who knows you – those in your network need to remember you when an opportunity comes up.”  For Peter Odongo, 30, the importance of networking goes way beyond just the need to improve the prospects of one’s career. “For me, networking is the ability to successfully and meaningfully coexist with other individuals around where I live, work and visit,” he says. Peter, who is working towards becoming a professional editor, the essence of networking is largely tied to the concept of the necessity of human interaction. “At the very basic level, it is through networking that I have been able to get a number of consultancy jobs in editing, an area that I am very interested in,” he says. Peter is a Masters student at the University of Nairobi, and his research interest is in how communication can be used to secure interactions among people and how this can then develop into a better life wholesomely.  Mary Mukundi, 27, is a cinematographer who started off as a reservation officer at a tours and travel agency. She made her first leap towards her career in cinematography, art directing and generally things film through utilising the networks she made as a reservation officer. “My first experience in networking was at a conference in Strathmore University. I met experienced photographers and filmmakers, and we shared ideas and exchanged contacts, since then, I have been steadily building my network,” says Mary, who adds that through networking, she met an experienced photographer, John Wambugu, who nurtured her skills in this area. Also, thanks to her networks, she has participated in big projects in the country and abroad and had the opportunity to visit new places. “I have also built my confidence along the way, and this way, I am able to walk up to people and ask for jobs,” Mary says. Some of the jobs that networking has linked Mary to include working in the movie, Watu Wote, in which she was a production assistant. Another is a costume and production styling job that requires skills she never thought she could master. “When you network, you are opened up to new worlds and new things and you begin to grow beyond what is familiar to you.” At the beginning, she says, networking does not come easy, at least not for everyone. “Initially, I was very shy and could not bring myself to speak to people at functions. I would observe and listen, but I realised that I had to go out there and speak to people, otherwise I was gaining nothing.”    