Jubilee-supporting Kamba leaders say their decision to back the party is irreversible because “they want to be part of the winning team”. The legislators said the Kamba people would not make another mistake of voting for opposition parties. The leaders included Nairobi Senator Mike Sonko, Machakos Town MP Victor Munyaka, Regina Ndambuki (Kilome), Rachel Nyamai (Kitui South), Joe Mutambo (Mwingi Central), Benson Mbai (Masinga), Kisoi Munyao (Mbooni), former MPs Philip Kaloki and Kalembe Ndile, Sports Kenya Chairman Fred Muteti and Makueni County Assembly Speaker Stephen Ngelu. They told Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka that he has no future in Nasa (National Super Alliance), saying that the coalition’s presidential candidate will be former Prime Minister Raila Odinga. The legislators said there was no way Mr Odinga was going to pave the way for any other candidate. Mr Mutambo said more than half of elected leaders from Ukambani were in Jubilee and scoffed at recent media classifications that the region was still an opposition zone. The leaders made the remarks on Wednesday when they met Deputy President William Ruto at his Karen office. They said Jubilee was a party with a national outlook and a clear agenda for Kenyans. Mr Ruto said he was impressed by the leaders’ decision to unite and woo the Kamba people to work with Jubilee for the sake of unity and development. He said there was nothing wrong with the region shifting its political allegiance to Jubilee “because the party is keen on developing all areas irrespective of voting patterns”. VOTING PATTERNS “I ask you to support Jubilee because it is a party that has an agenda to change the lives of Kenyans. This is what you need to look for in politics and not your tribesman or kinsman,” said Mr Ruto. He added: “Kenya wants leaders who can change the country for the better and its only Jubilee leaders who can do this.” Mr Munyao described opposition leaders as individuals who served in previous governments and in senior positions with nothing to show Kenyans. Mr Mbai and Mr Mutambo said Jubilee was not scared of any of the Nasa leaders being named as the flag bearer because they will all fail. “We all know that none of the Nasa candidates has the interest of Kenyans at heart,” said Mr Mutambo. The leaders said compared to the previous governments, the Kamba can boast of Jubilee’s development projects to a tune of Sh 114 billion. They cited roads construction, water dams, electricity, Konza city, development of the health services among other projects. They also told off Mr Musyoka for criticising MPs from the region working with the Jubilee administration, saying no one criticised him when he worked with President Daniel Moi for 24 years. Ms Nyamai said legislators from the region have not decided to work with Jubilee for their selfish gains but for the benefit of the Akamba people in terms of development projects. “Jubilee is working hard to eradicate poverty, hunger and acute water shortages in our region. This is why we are ready to work with it ,” she said. Mr Ruto said the opposition had no agenda for Kenyans other than discussing him in their political rallies. “Jubilee is doing a lot of development projects for the Kamba barely four years in power,” said Mr Sonko.  