The fourth annual devolution conference enters its second day today. Cord Principal – Kalonzo Musyoka and Wiper leader – is among key speakers expected to address he meeting, where counties are sharing their experiences with devolution in the last four years. The theme of the conference that was officially opened yesterday by President Kenyatta is 'Devolution – Transforming lives, tell your story.' Delegates will today discuss progress made by counties in empowering local communities in natural resource management for sustainable development. DISCUSSIONS The session’s speaker is Climate Change expert Dr George Wamukoya. The panellist expected are Devolution Cabinet Secretary Mwangi Kiunjuri, Environment and Natural Resources CS Prof Judy Wakhungu and their Water and Irrigation counterpart Eugene Wamalwa. Also lined up for discussion today are discussions on the equality and inclusivity at the county level with the conference taking stock of how counties have fared in the implementation of equitable representation, promotion of marginalized groups, cultural diversity and gender. National Gender and Equality chairperson Winfred Lichuma will be the main speaker in the session to be chaired by Mombasa County Senator Hassan Omar and moderated by Youth Agenda chief executive Susan Kariuki. DEVOLUTION IMPACT Panellists lined up include UN Woman Deputy County Director Ms Karin Fueg, Public Service Gender and Youth Affairs CS Sicily Kariuki, Kericho Governor Paul Chepkwony, who chairs the Education, Gender and Youth Committee in the Council of Governors, Mr Ronnie Osumba, the Youth Enterprise Fund chair, the Kenya National Association for the Deaf and Makueni Deputy Governor Adelina Mwau. The conference will also discuss how devolution has impacted on sustainable urban development. The media will also have an opportunity to give its perspective on devolution for development in a session steered by Media Council of Kenya chair Charles Kerich and moderated by Senator Naisula Lesuuda. Delegates will also celebrate snapshots of the international Women’s day.   Small-scale traders from various counties tell their "devolution stories."