How do you spend your free time away from school and books? Well, these six ambitious college men and women run various income generating projects whenever they are not in class. While their earnings augment the financial support they get from their parents, some of them are even able to save for the future, and one actually pays her school fees exclusively from her side hustle. They say that the money they make on the side has given them independence and enabled them to enjoy the lifestyle of their choice. Furthermore, these engagements have taught them valuable lessons such as financial discipline, time management and planning ahead. And yes, they feel they are ready to take on life after school.    Side hustle: Photography When did you start running this business and what motivated you? I began doing photography as a side hustle in 2014 during my second year in college. I had done photography before for fun, using a Fujifilm camera gifted to me by an uncle. My friends would marvel at my photos, which inspired me to turn the skill into a money-making venture. Besides, I would get embarrassed asking my mother for money. I wanted independence, which I sought through doing what I knew and enjoyed; landscape and travel photography. I also capture images of people in their daily activities, photos I sell to friends and other individuals who have seen my works. How are you able to balance between the bulk of academic assignments and the demands of this job? Class work takes precedence. I ensure that I complete school assignments and projects on time, which allows me to pursue my photography without distraction. How much do you make in a month and how do you spend it? I make between Sh20,000 and Sh40,000 a month. Since I receive monthly upkeep from my mother, I reinvest some of my income into the business by buying equipment. Saving is a top priority for me, so every month I save Sh10,000. I am very conscious of my looks, so I use part of the remaining money to buy clothes and other personal items. The rest goes to bus fare, airtime and lunch. Since I am able to cater for some of my expenses, my mother agreed to rent a place for me outside the school premises, which is more spacious and offers me privacy. I can say that I am an independent woman. Is there any connection between your course and photography? Health documentaries are a powerful tool of creating awareness in the population on ways to prevent diseases. My course dwells majorly on the preventive aspect of illnesses, and through photography, I believe I will be able to pass on educative information to the people. You must have a role model you seek to emulate… The works of Sam Vox, a freelance photographer from Tanzania, Benjamin Hardman, an Australian photographer, and Jebet Naava, who practises portraiture photography, inspire and challenge me. I wish to attain the same level of finesse as they have. What else do you enjoy doing besides photography and your studies? I have been playing football in the university soccer team since my First Year. I also love playing the guitar and mountaineering, which allows me to exercise my photography skill even more. What shortcoming have you observed amongst your peers? Milllenials target instant returns on invested capital, which, occasionally, does not happen. Others imagine that you must have huge amounts of money to start off a business. Also, few are unwilling to sacrifice time and resources in a venture that is not generating money quickly. Do you foresee yourself working fulltime in photography? I wish to shoot documentary photography on nature and environmental health. I also want to own my own studio in future. ******   Side Hustle: Plays Floorball in the national team and is a commissioned photographer at Lines Photography, located in Kahawa Wendani. What is floorball? It is a type of floor hockey with five field players and a goalkeeper in each team. I played rugby in high school, but when I joined university, I could not find my version of it, so I joined rollball instead because it was the closest thing to what I wanted. During an East African championship in Tanzania, I was introduced to floorball; I have been training, learning and playing this game ever since. How do you train in floorball in a country where the sport is just under two years old? I train largely through YouTube and other learning sources online. I am the current coach of floorball at KU - we are targeting the Olympics come 2022. Would you say yours is a worthwhile side hustle? It is. On average, I am paid Sh15,000 a month to play the game and train my team. I buy books, pay rent and support my love for skating through this money, as well as what I make from photography. Apart from the money, why do you think floorball (and sports in general) is important? The game is transporting. I think that if Kenyans embraced the teamwork mentality of sport in their day-to-day life, there would be no room for tribalism or nepotism because we will realise how much more we can achieve as a team. ******   Side hustle: Selling undergarments How did you raise capital for your business? When I came up with this business idea, my mother was so pleased, she loaned me a Sh5,000. Together with Sh3,000 which I had saved from my pocket money, I bought my first stock of men’s and women’s underwear. What is the scope of your market? I mostly sell to fellow students in their hostel rooms. I market my business mostly through word of mouth. I receive orders from across Nairobi, and charge a small fee for delivery, usually the equivalent of the cost of transport to the client’s location. What motivated you to go into business while still in school? The main influence came from a couple of university friends. One was importing handbags and another one shoes, which they sold to students and other clients. They started small, but soon, were making a lot of money without any hassle. I made a gamble with underwear, a decision I am glad I made. I also wanted to fill my free time. Sometimes not all lectures take place, so you are left with nothing to do. I wanted to keep myself busy. Running this business must have taught you some valuable lessons… Foremost is financial discipline. If you withdraw money from the business carelessly, the business will eventually collapse. Sometimes I run into nice things in town, but since I had not budgeted for them, I don’t buy them. I spend money only when there is a compelling reason to do so. What have you managed to accomplish with your sidehustle? Today, with the profit of between Sh8,000 and Sh10,000 I make in a month, I am able to buy clothes and shoes, stay in my own spacious rented place and visit the tourism sites that my country has to offer once in a while. This would not have been possible when I depended on my parents for everything. I am very proud of myself. What aspirations do you have for your business? I want to own the largest store in Kenya that deals exclusively with undergarments. I draw inspiration from Michelle Ntalami, founder of Marini Naturals, Kenya’s first haircare line for women of natural and afro-textured hair. Honestly, I do not see myself becoming a teacher. What else do you enjoy doing? I am a member of a choir group called Nairobi Girls Chorale - we practice every Saturday and Sunday. Being in this group enable me to meet potential clients. ******   Side hustle: He runs a company called Stowelinc Inc, Tell us about your side-hustle. Stowelinc Inc is a public health service that sensitises college students about subjects such as HIV and Aids, safe sex, condom use and lifestyle diseases, diseases that can be prevented by making healthy and informed choices about what we eat and how we live. What are some of the projects you have engaged in? One of them is a condom distribution project. We liaised with the AIDS control unit and the sexual reproductive health committee at Kenyatta University and got to distribute condoms to 3,000 students at the university and its environs. This took place in February this year. In January this year, we launched Project Alpha. The project focuses on bringing to the fore cancers that affect men since we felt that they are not given enough attention. What informed your choice of side hustle? First, this is an area that I am very interested in, hence why I chose to study population health. Health is a subject that everyone, rich or poor, is interested in. Who do you work with? I work with fellow students in the school of Public Health at Kenyatta University. I also work with up and coming photographers and fashion models during our functions to help drive home the message during our sensitisation forums. How do you reach out to other young people? Through modelling and photoshoots that are thematically constructed, social media and through conferences that we hold periodically. For example on April 6 and 7, this year, we will partner with Santé-Reva Group to hold a cancer training workshop. How does one get on board? Voluntary participation, mostly. We also share this information through our faculty and school. For specialised skills such as photography and modelling, we do open calls. What has the reception been like so far? It is encouraging, though some students are shy and others hostile to our message. Having supportive parents was a plus for me because they even offered me financial support when I was starting out. Now I am on a firmer footing. How do you make money from this? We do a lot of photoshoots through which we generate money. Students also pay a small fee, Sh100, to attend some of our events. On a good week, we are involved in two events, each paying between Sh3,000 and Sh4,000. In a month, I make at least Sh24,000. I use part of it to pay the students that I work with. I am also able to buy items that I need, which my parents would not necessarily buy for me because I can do without them. ******    Side hustle: Model, model agent, as well as a model dresser What drew you to modelling? I won a modelling competition while in high school, and when I joined St. Paul’s University, I signed up for the Mr. SPU Machakos 2016-2017, competition, which I won. I am the current Mr St. Paul’s University, Machakos campus. Winning this title opened my mind to the many other things that I could do in fashion. It also gave me a lot of exposure and connections. Today, I work with a couple of designers, including Tesh Muema, who has taught me a lot of what there is to know about this industry. How often do you have modelling gigs? I have at least two modelling jobs a week, which pay about Sh10,000. In a month, I can therefore make about Sh30,000. The good thing with this is that I mostly work in the evening after classes, so I do not really struggle to balance my time. I plan to open my own modelling agency in future, I therefore save a percentage of what I earn towards this. The rest of the money goes towards pays for my hostel room and personal needs. *****    Side hustle: Cashier at a boutique in town. What motivated you to seek a job while still in school? I have a younger sister who is also in university; I wanted to ease my parents’ burden of raising money for our school fees. Needs multiply as you grow, and it bothered me to ask for money from my parents, money I would not always get. Working also distracts me from the monotony of studies and college life. Besides, I wanted to prepare myself for life after school. How did you get this job? It was through networking. I am a member of a dancing group called Salsa Lovers. One of the members posted several job opportunities in his friend’s businesses on our WhatsApp group. I decided to try my luck and applied. I was offered two jobs – the first was at a cosmetics shop outside the city centre, but the working hours were inconsistent with my school schedule, so I chose this one. How did your parents react when you told them you had gotten a job? At first they were concerned that my studies would suffer. Over time, I demonstrated that I could juggle well between my studies and job. Today I have their full support. I work from 8am to 5pm from Monday to Saturday. Final year students in JKUAT are eligible for evening classes if they have other commitments during the day. This is how I am able to manage an 8am to 5pm job. This compact schedule has taught me to become time conscious. It is a tiresome engagement, but the merits outweigh the demerits. How else do you spend your income besides paying your school fees? I have rented a place outside the university premises,  because I could not tolerate the poor hygiene in hostels or sharing accomodation. Besides paying my school fees, my money goes to bus fare and also paying my rent of Sh8,000. I earn a monthly pay of 27,000. Every month, I save at least Sh5,000, which I plan to start investing. Have you worked elsewhere? Just before I joined university in 2014, I briefly worked in product promotion in a cosmetics company. I have also had a stint as a waitress in my home town, Embu. What would you say are your main achievements so far? My interaction with my employer and clients has taught me the values of careful scrutiny of situations, patience and courtesy. These are at the heart of a successful career and business. Since my career is anchored on entrepreneurship, I do not take these lessons for granted.  