Kenyans on the Internet were horrified after details leading to the early retirement of a principal in one of the country’s leading schools emerged. The brutal stories of bullying and mistreatment of Form One students at the Alliance High School have left many with a bitter taste in their mouths and they have posted different reactions social media after photos of one of the victims became public. Many feel that the punishment meted out against the principal was too lenient and more action should be taken to curb the vice. VERY WRONG Kendi Kiruki said on Facebook, “The boy child has been taught how to bottle up his feelings. The society needs to tell him it's okay to speak out. Reason many men will succumb to depression compared to women. Jail those crooks. Jail the administration!” Michael Mutsembi posted, “This is totally wrong, police must pick up with the case, and the principal who has been seeing this happening must also be send to jail, Matiang'i also should form special committee to check out what is going in schools.” “I think it's better we do away with boarding schools in Kenya,” suggested Barry Liuva. Some said that bullying has been happening (especially) in boys’ boarding schools and many have suffered silently through it. NOT SHOCKED Noni Muturi posted, “Ooh, am not in shock. We used to interact with this school so much back when I was in high school and the horrific tales you would hear...Jesus Christ....anyway what one does in darkness will come to light.” Many social media users in the country were shocked by the things done to the students in the dead of night with the full knowledge of the school’s administration. “Why should young boys be made to sleep on graves? The school administrators should be sent to jail without trial. How do they violate these children's rights and innocence like that?” Jackie Muthoni Ndichu wondered. COMMON THING Some social media users seemed to be condoning the incident. “Not a big deal. Boys will be boys,” Nico Kimari Ndonye posted. Kabz Jomo Bellavista said, “This induction happens in most top schools, but only for one day, and no beatings, just military punishments like squatting, push-ups, rolling on the floor etc... More like an initiation. In this case they went overboard.” MATIANG'I SPEAKS Meanwhile, Education Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i said the bullying incident at the school will be dealt with 'quietly' with the school board and other stakeholders Speaking during the first graduation of Kenya Coast National Polytechnic, Dr Matiang'i said the government is committed to ensure students learn "under conducive and smart environment' "we are working with the school board, faith-based organisations, Old Boys Association and the Teachers' Service Commission to ensure that matter is resolved internally," said Dr Matiang'i.  Additional reporting by Galgallo Bocha   Beatings and weird ‘induction nights’ on Form Ones by prefects with teachers’ blessings.