First Lady Margaret Kenyatta on Wednesday celebrated distinguished women who have brought change in the social political landscape in the country as the world marked International Women’s Day. The First Lady praised all the women who have championed women's rights at an event at the Villa Rosa Kempinski Nairobi hotel. Mrs Kenyatta launched a book on Kenyan female achievers, which will be distributed free in all primary and secondary schools. The book corrects the impression that women played no role in Kenya’s socio-political development. She also launched the Status Report (2016) on women developed by the ministry responsible for gender affairs. “We celebrate you for your unsung diligence and dedication to this country, our communities, and our families. It is appropriate that in line with this years’ theme of 'Being Bold for Change', we are here in part to recognise some remarkable women in our history,” said the First Lady. Among the women celebrated were heroines Mekatilili wa Menza, recognised post-humously Wangu wa Makeri, Field Marshall Muthoni Kirima and Mama Ngina Kenyatta. Mama Ngina was imprisoned by the British government alongside Mukami Kimathi at Kamiti. Others celebrated were Nobel Prize Laureate, the late Prof Wangari Maathai, Jane Kiano, Honorine Kiplagat, Zipporah Kitony, first female judge Justice Effie Owuor, Prof Wanjiku Kabira, author Muthoni Likimani, Terry Kantai (who led the first Women’s Bureau), first female member and political activist in Ford Kenya Jael Mbogo, Ms Tabitha Seii, Educationist Eddah Gachukia, veteran women politician Phoebe Asiyo and Nack leader Martha Karua. Veteran politician Asiyo asked women to fight for their space in the society despite the opposition. Ms Asiyo said, during the fight for independence, over 11,000 women were detained in independence fight. Meanwhile, over 200,000 school girls from Moi Forces Academy received Always sanitary pads from brand manager, Ms Ivy Kimani. At the same time, delegates attending the fourth annual devolution conference in Naivasha began the second day of the forum with a short celebration of International Women’s Day.  