A boda boda rider from Mukurwe-ini in Nyeri County was Tuesday night stabbed to death after a disagreement over Sh200 campaign money. Bianjo Mwaniki Chira, 29, was allegedly stabbed three times by his neighbour in Thiha Village after the two reportedly failed to agree on how to share out Sh200 they earned after a day’s campaign work. The assailant, who has since gone into hiding, had been hanging posters of an aspirant for a county assembly seat. The two were part of a boda boda campaign team hired by the aspirant ahead of Jubilee Party primaries to be held in April. DRINKING On the night of the attack, the two were having drinks at a local bar, barely 100 metres from home, when a quarrel broke out between four men. The source of the argument, according to witnesses, was money that they had been paid for the campaigns. They accused the assailant, identified as Mr Samuel Waithaka, of swindling them of Sh200. “They were fighting over campaign money they had received via M-Pesa. He beat four people and then left shouting, “Leo mtajua mimi ni mwanamume,” (Today you will know that I am a man),” said a friend of the deceased who declined to be named. Mr Waithaka is said to have attacked three other men before turning to the deceased with a punch. The suspected killer is said to have left the bar at around midnight heading home but was followed by the deceased and a brother back to his house. CONFRONTATION According to the father of the deceased, Mr Chira and his brother wanted to confront Mr Waithaka on why had turned violent against them yet they worked together. “He was angry and they were demanding to know why he attacked them so they followed him to his house. “His brother told us that they found him holding a knife and threatened to stab them if they did not leave,” said Mr Jackson Chira, the father. It was during the confrontation that the suspect is said to have stabbed Mwaniki in the abdomen, chest and head before running away. The deceased’s wife, Ms Ruth Wanjiru and his father, rushed to the scene after hearing screams. Attempts to save the father of two were futile as he bled to death. Mukurwe-ini Divisional Police Commander Issa Mohammud confirmed the incident, saying that a man who lived with the suspect has been arrested. “We understand the fight was over campaign money but we are still gathering more information. The suspect fled but we are holding a close acquaintance of his who is helping us with the investigations,” said Mr Mohammud. The police boss also noted that an alert had been placed on the suspect and a manhunt is still ongoing.  