The Political Parties’ Disputes Tribunal is today expected to give a ruling on whether to issue a temporary order compelling the Jubilee Party to accept former Mungiki leader Maina Njenga’s nomination papers for the Laikipia Senatorial seat unconditionally. Through lawyer Evans Ondieki, he dragged the ruling Party before the tribunal while protesting the rejection of his nomination papers on grounds that he had already paid Sh 250,000 as requisite fees among other huge sum of monies for Jubilee campaigns. He accused the party of infringing on his political right while claiming that he has already complied with other legal requirements such as the one of producing clearance certificates of good conduct, compliance from Kenya Revenue Authority, the Ethics & Anti-Corruption Commission and the Credit Reference Bureau. “The decision to reject my nomination papers on account of instructions from the party leader and his deputy is dictatorial, unreasonable and unjustified in an open and just democratic society, having accepted my registration and nomination fee,” Mr Njenga said. Apart from the registration and nomination fees which he claimed to have already paid, he argued that it is wrong for his bid to be thwarted after spending a considerable amount of monies on mobilization, printing of t-shirts, posters, jackets, caps, banners and branding of vehicles. He allegedly spent over 100 million shillings campaigning for Jubilee Party. He wants it declared that the decision of Jubilee to reject his nomination papers is illegal, null and void. He also wants it declared that his political rights have been infringed hence Jubilee should be compelled to protect the rule of law in his case. He had also sued the Independent Electoral & Boundaries Commission but the tribunal directed that the electoral body be excluded from the dispute. Last week, the Jubilee Secretariat rejected his papers while citing ‘integrity issues'. But he argues that he is a born again Christian.   Officials at Pangani headquarters cite integrity issues and order from above in their decision.