Violent confrontations witnessed in the past few days over party nominations are sending chilling signals that must be quickly arrested. Parties must find a way of dealing with violent members who want to force their way and threaten peace and stability. In fact, such candidates should be disqualified. Indeed, they have no business getting into positions of leadership. Ideally, the parties should have long organised themselves to conduct fair and credible primaries. Everybody knew all along that nominations would be coming and that they might be fraught with challenges. This is because in many places, securing a party nomination automatically catapults one to political leadership, which explains the aggression and viciousness. But this is not new information. Parties have no reason to wait until the last minute to constitute election boards on ad hoc basis, as that is bound to spark acrimonious contests and undermine democracy. On paper, party primaries ought to be conducted or supervised by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission, but in reality, this is not possible. First, there aren’t adequate resources for the IEBC to conduct the nominations. Second, the IEBC cannot be a player and an arbiter, as that would undermine its neutrality in case disputes arising from nominations are brought before it for adjudication. It up to the parties to conduct the primaries on their own. But whatever the case they must be fair and credible. A wining party forms the government and if they cannot conduct proper internal polls, they have no legitimacy in seeking national leadership. Moreover, candidates who win by fluke or force cannot be trusted to conduct themselves with dignity. A critical challenge that must be addressed is party governance. Sadly, many are individual-driven and community-based and are purely used as vehicles to ascend to power. Ideology is an anathema. Party founders hold full sway; determining those occupying whatever positions. Democracy and the freedom of choice are stifled. The parties must rein in violent and errant members and ensure that the primaries are conducted fairly, smoothly and peacefully.  