Mumias-based Dismas Indiza on Tuesday did what was expected of him a fine round of four under par 68 to walk away with the first prize in the Emrok Tea Pro-Am event at the par 72 Vet Lab Sports Club.The long-hitting Indiza, who had started with a level par 72 during Monday s first round, dropped only one shot at the 15th, having picked up a total of five birdies for the day, to bring his total to four under par 140, beating Golf Park s David Wakhu by two shots. The course is well prepared though I found the greens slightly slow, said Indiza who birdied the fourth, sixth, seventh, 12th and 14th holes. He said he will now be shifting his base to Muthaiga which is the venue for this year s Barclays Kenya Open golf Championship set for March 23. I will be playing, even if it is one nine, but focusing on the holes that have been a problem for me during the Open, added Indiza, one of Kenya s most popular professionals. Wakhu birdied the first and sixth with an eagle three at the par five- seventh and later on the 12th and 18th at the back nine. He, however, dropped shots on the third, ninth, 11th and 15th for one under par 71 and a total of two under par 142. He won Sh40,000 while the winner Indiza went home with Sh60,000. Nakuru s Richard Ainley had a total of six birdies for the day, but a double bogey at the par four-third, and single bogeys at the ninth and 11th, denied him a better score which would have propelled him to the top of the leader board. He tied for the third place on 143 with Thika Sports Club s Simon Ngige who fired three under par 69 to also finish on 143. Eight players made the two over par 146 and better cut. Meanwhile, during the weekend s Lady Captain s Prize at Ruiru Sports Club, Josphat Kaunda emerged the overall winner after posting 43 points made up of 20 and 23 points. He beat men winner Fredrick Mburu (22,21) on countback. Michael Chege also on 43 was second in the men s category where Mwangi Mukururi was third on 41 points. In the ladies section, S.Patel carded 35 points to beat Veronica Mwaura on countback while Pauline Mungai on 34 was third. The nines went to Margaret Kamau on 21 and Rugu Njoroge with 24 points. Ken Munari, on 34, emerged the best men guest and the lady guest winner was Aisha Duba also on 34 points, while Bernard Omondi took home the gross prize with six over par 78 gross. email print email print Gender Affairs Principal Secretary Zeinab Hussein accused of campaigning for Jubilee. Before non-stop flights begin, US transport officials have to do several assessments.