Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya has asked Kwale residents to consider aspirants' development record and not to vote on party lines. Mr Mvurya, who ditched the Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) for Jubilee Party said political parties are not responsible for development. "Let me caution you not to be swayed by political parties because parties do not work. The person who will work for you is Mvurya,” said the governor. Mr Mvurya, who was elected on an ODM ticket in 2013, said he is firmly in Jubilee Party and will defend his seat on the party’s ticket. The governor said he is being fought because of his sound development track record and his stand for ditching the opposition. “I have initiated a lot of projects that have created positive change amongst the people of Kwale and thus I am confident of retaining the seat,” Mr Mvurya. A resident, Mr Hamisi Mwakumanya said the governor enjoys support from different communities in the county. “ODM should know that they do not have the support of Kwale anymore. As Kwale residents we have now woken up and we are not going to allow other people to meddle with our affairs,” he said. Addressing traders in Kwale town during business and co-operatives leader’s forum, Mr Mvurya challenged the opposition to show their development track record for the public to audit. Mr Mvurya further accused the National Super Alliance (Nasa) big wigs for forgetting the plight of the public hence championing for their interests in pretence that they are out to serve them. Mr Mvurya’s departure from ODM has put a leadership crisis as it left no outright replacement in the county resulting to a scramble for a suitable candidate. Those eyeing the governor’s seat on ODM party ticket include County Assembly Speaker Sammy Ruwa, Issah Chipera, Mwachai Mwarapayo, Gereza Dena and Chirau Mwakwere on Wiper Party. The governor was accompanied by his deputy Fatuma Achani, aspirants Ruga Mshenga (Senator), Fatuma Tabwara (Woman Rep) and Safina Kwekwe (Trade executive).  