IN HARARE, ZIMBABWEKenya s boys team moved from eighth to sixth place at the close of day two in the on-going Africa Junior Golf Championship at Royal Harare Golf Club where day one leaders and title holders South Africa remained at the top.The South Africans lead was however reduced to three shots by the hot charging Zimbabweans who saw one of its players Nyamukondiwa Tafadzwa post one under par 71 while leading player David Amm carded one over par 73 and Thompson Masiya brought 77 for a total of 433 gross.The South Africans best score was also a 71 by Luca Filipi while Jayden Schaper fired 73 and Christo Lamprecht 75 for a total of 430 gross. But the performance was generally poor for all the teams with many players complaining of tight pin positions. The pin positions were in difficult positions. It made it almost impossible to attack the greens, said Akshay Chandaria who shot five over par 77, the best for the Kenyans.Kenya s leading player Agil Is-Haq fired seven over par 79 and Zubair Khan carded 84 for a team total score to 481. Uganda and Re Union tied for the third place on two rounds total of 460 gross. Three of the Ugandan boys David Kamulinda, Joel Basalane and Dennis Asaba posted 79, 74 and 78. Basalane s score included a two penalty strokes for reporting to the tee late. While lifting the Re Union was Antoine Sale with a score of two over par 74. There was no change in positions in the girls section where only four countries are being represented. South Africa who all played below 80, remained at the top with 290, followed by the home team with 322 while Kenya was in third on 347. The team s top player Kallie Gachaga shot 89 gross and Ashley Awour improved by four shots firing 88 while Loice Akinyi carded 96 gross. With Zambia tailing off on 415. The tournament enters its third day Thursday with the teeing off set for 7am. email print email print South Africa fired their way to the top of the points table at Royal Harare Golf Club.Lately, however, the President has been tactless, combative and without his characteristic charm. Residents say the girls were likely to end up as brides for the fighters.