I have said before that learning comes from action. That is, no amount of classroom or text book knowledge can replace the practical knowledge that only exists in use. I was reminded of this fact recently during my interaction with Kenny when he paid an impromptu visit to my farm in Njiru, Nairobi.I had just disembarked from the car when Cleophas, my farm manager, told me, You have a visitor waiting. Of course I hadn t scheduled any appointments. I prefer seeing visitors on appointment to avoid disrupting farm activities. Reluctantly, I asked Cleophas to usher him into the guest room situated between the guinea fowls and turkeys houses.After enquiring what I could do for him, I learnt he was interested in knowing virtually everything about poultry, from housing plans, feeding, disease control and vaccination and marketing. Normally, I cover the topics in one of the short courses I offer and I also share a free handout with readers covering these topics. Out of courtesy, I decided to spare some time to hear his concerns first hand. I am planning to relocate my poultry project from Siaya to Nairobi, Kenny said, Do you think this is a good idea? Now, I have experience running a farm in my rural home and another in Nairobi and as Kenny s story unfolded, I felt it was better to listen first. For sure, Kenny was running a fairly successful poultry farm of about 200 Kienyeji birds under free-range system. His challenge was the neighbours who complained that his chickens were destroying their crops. Sometime back, he said, They deliberately fed them balls of ugali dipped in salty water and a couple died. LIMITED MARKET OUTLETSAnother thing he told me was that being a rural setting, market outlets for eggs and meat were limited. In my mind, I thought I had a solution for Ken. That is he confines the chickens in a chain link as I did on my farm in Busia. The problem, Kenny told me, was that he doesn t have exclusive rights to use the three-acre piece of land because it belongs to his parents. For a fact, lack of rights to use of an ancestral land is a common problem for many young people wishing to venture into agribusiness. Fortunately, he said he had purchased an eighth of an acre near Daystar University on the outskirts of Nairobi where he planned to relocate the project and increase the stock to 500 birds. Now, he posed further, which was the better option, relocating mature birds from Siaya or selling them off and starting with chicks in Nairobi?This question reminded me of a road trip to Busia (Seeds of Gold, December 18, 2015) in which I ferried my 104 healthy, four-week-old chicks from Nairobi.During the trip, I only lost two chicks but in my first attempt, I transported mature birds and I lost three out of 33.The younger the birds, the easier it is to transport them. When transporting chicken, loses should not exceed 2 per cent of the stock.RELOCATING MATURE BIRDSIf he was to relocate mature birds, I asked him to ensure cages he would use had adequate space for ventilation; there was absence of disease in the flock and quarantine the birds for at least 21 days before releasing to free-range. From my experience, I advised Kenny to dispose the mature birds, a process however that may take time, and start afresh in Nairobi with chicks, where he would monitor the project better. Raise the birds under intensive management for the first eight weeks after which allow them to scavenge in an enclosed area. This is the only way to reduce cost on feeds and to maximise profits, I told him.If each run allows 10 to 15 square metres per bird, they are able to meet 60 to 70 per cent of their total feed requirements from pastures, insects and worms while the remaining 30 to 40 per cent is met by supplementing using formulated feeds. I cautioned Kenny that if the birds were expected to obtain substantial part of their diet from foraging, then he should allow 40 to 80 square metres per bird. However, he countered that he would supplement with ochonga, a small type of fish found in Lake Victoria which he indicated he gets cheaply. I liked the idea although being a source of protein, I advised him to add some maize for energy.***Your Questions AnsweredSteven Kenga, Mombasa: I would like to develop a business plan to raise funds to rear 500 broilers. Do you offer such services? Your purpose for developing a business plan is clear although you also need to determine objectives for starting the project. Please send me email to book training. It takes between one and three months to complete. Oluga Wanjala, Zambia: I am keen to revive my village chicken farming project. Share a basic handout for starters. Please send me an email for a free copy. Mactosh Omwonga, Kisii: Please advise on how I can make feeds for my 500 birds.Making feeds is both a science and an art. It requires mixing a lot of ingredients in the right ratio. I offer short courses on the topic. Send me an email to book. email print email print Many farmers are going for improved chicken breeds expecting good returns, but you need to do the maths So far nine suspects have been charged in court at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport. Dr Githongo had been notified on February 28 that he would be a witness.