Elections will be free and fair, President Uhuru Kenyatta has assured Kenyans. This will be despite the problems thrown at the electoral agency. The President said on Wednesday that recent laws passed to support the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) should give the preparations a new impetus required to conduct credible polls. “I have full confidence that this team is capable of delivering a credible election,” the President said. He also congratulated the retired commissioners who left office in January, adding that they did a “good job” during their tenure. Despite legal challenges on procurement and the voter register audit case, the President insisted the elections would be free and fair. “I wish to assure the nation that my government is committed to free and fair elections. In preparation for the elections, Parliament passed legislations to improve the management of the electoral process,” said the Head of State. ENHANCE TRANSPARENCY “My government has also enacted laws to enhance transparency and accountability of the electoral process.” He stressed on peace, warning that historical events that occurred in 2007 should remain a reminder on how not to approach elections in the country. “Those seeking political office must desist from any utterances that may divide Kenyans along ethnic, religious or other lines. I urge citizens to exercise tolerance during and after the elections,” he said. READ: Country ready for election, Uhuru says But the opposition has not been settled on the election preparedness with Siaya Senator James Orengo warning that the polls could be bungled by poor preparations. THREATENING CREDIBILITY “Where we are right now is worse than where we were when we went to 2013 polls,” said Mr Orengo. He warned that missed timelines were threatening the credibility of the exercise, adding that failure to conduct voter register audits would be disastrous. The IEBC Chairman Wafula Chebukati recently released a statement that raised doubts on whether the commission will be able to conduct the audit.  