Nakuru County will host the fourth devolution conference to be held between March 6 and 9 at the Kenya Wildlife Service Training Institute in Naivasha Sub-County. The first conference was held in Kwale in 2014 with the 2015 one being held in Kisumu. In 2016, Meru County hosted the third devolution meeting. Governor Kinuthia Mbugua has said they have done public sensitisation to encourage people to come out and participate in the conference. “I call upon Kenyans to come out in large numbers and join President Uhuru Kenyatta, who will open the conference, in celebrating devolution. “This will be the last devolution conference as the country gears towards [the] August polls,” noted Mr Mbugua. NAIVASHA TOWN The conference will bring together 47 governors, senators, members of Parliament, members of county assemblies, investors and other business people, both local and international and is expected to electrify Naivasha Town and its environs. Over 6,000 local and international participants will attend the conference. The theme of the conference is “Devolution - Transforming Lives: Tell your story”. Earlier on, questions were raised on why the conference was being held in Naivasha as opposed to Nakuru Town which is the county’s headquarters. In his response, Governor Mbugua said arrangements had been made to ensure that all business operators reap from the conference. BUSINESSES BENEFIT “Naivasha is part of Nakuru County and there’s no harm in holding the conference in the town since we have made arrangements to see that all business operators benefit from the event,” said governor Mbugua. Council of Governors Chairman Peter Munya, who spoke at Jarika County Lodge in Nakuru on Wednesday evening, said the conference seeks to showcase what counties have achieved. “We shall be giving our report cards because this is the first County administration since inauguration of the current constitution in 2010. “Although we have suffered a number challenges which include limited resources, devolution has really changed the various sectors,” said Mr Munya. DEVOLUTION STORIES Mr Munya called on Kenyans to come out in large numbers to attend the conference. “We have many stories of what devolution has done in various sectors and we would like to call on everyone to come out and tell their stories,” he said. He noted that apart from the leaders from across the country, international dignitaries are also expected. “Among the guests expected will be governors from China. “The president will be opening the conference [and] that’s why we have shifted the funeral of Nyeri governor to Monday so as to ensure that everyone attends,” said Mr Munya. In the past, many major conferences have been hosted in Naivasha due to the town’s capacity to accommodate many visitors. Hotels in Nakuru Town have limited bed capacity, thus denying it the chance to host major conferences, with organisers opting for Naivasha. In February 2015, the governors’ second annual summit was held at the Enashipai resort in Naivasha.   A spot check by the Nation in various clubs in past one week indicated booming business as revelers partied until dawn.