Some families displaced due to insecurity in Laikipia County are now spending nights under trees for fear of attack from migrating herders. They have abandoned their homes, preferring to spend nights in the open where they feel safer despite the marauding wildlife in the vicinity. Their fears have been heightened by recent attacks that resulted in death and injuries. Early this week, a woman and her two sons were shot and injured at Al Jijo village and are currently admitted in hospital. The attack came after an elderly man was shot in Mukogondo East ward, Laikipia North sub-county. On Friday, women from Al Jijo said they have been forced to flee from their homes and are camping near Ol Kinyei dam. “I spent the night under the acacia trees with my six children. They wake up and go to school in the morning without taking a shower or breakfast, “said Ms Grace Korosian. She said some children were sick as a result of cold nights and appealed to the county government to provide them with tents. “We know the herders who have migrated to our county with cattle are armed. Our husbands only have clubs and since we know they cannot defend us, we chose to be sleeping outside until the government can assure us of security,” said Ms Elena Piroris, a mother of three. Laikipia Governor Joshua Irungu called for the setting up of a permanent police patrol base in the area to protect residents from the migrating herders. “Initially it seemed the migrating herdsmen were looking for pasture but it is now clear they want occupy the land and drive away the rightful owners. Everyone has a right to his property and the Government will protect the rightful owner from those who want to occupy it illegally,” said Mr Irungu. He assured the resident that they would not be harassed by security agents tasked with evicting herders from private ranches. “I will inform the district security committee that you have been allowed to graze some of your animals in private ranches so that you are not affected by the operation,” said the Governor. Residents had told the governor they feared they would be targeted for harassment in the operation.  