Kenyan teams leave the country on Saturday for Fiba Afro Basket Zone Five qualifiers in Cairo, Egypt. The team officials were however forced to drop three players, including two from the women’s squad after the government gave inadequate air tickets. Both teams will now have 11 players instead of the expected 12. Those dropped include Lucy Machuma, Belinda Okoth and Felix Odhiambo. The men’s team also suffered a blow after it was revealed that the three foreign-based players, who were to link with the team in Cairo, will not join the team after they failed to secure releases from their various clubs. The trio of Valentine Nyakinda (based in Seychelles), Tylor Okari and Bush Wamukota (both based in Europe) had been expected to lead Kenya’s hunt for the title in the biennial competition that starts on Sunday. “We have been in contact with the players and they were positive of making it to Cairo. However, it has since proved to get them for the competition and we are disappointed. However, we still have good players who will do duty,” interim team manager Edson Wabomba said on Friday. In the trio’s absence, Co-operative Bank’s James Mwangi and Nairobi City Thunder forward Griffins Ligare will be charged with the Kenyan attack in the Egyptian capital. The team will captained by Joseph Khaemba of Co-op Bank with Carey Odhambo handling the 11-man team. “We have been posting bad results in this tournament and it is high time we go and reclaim our lost glory,” Odhiambo said. Women’s coach David Maina will hope his success at Kenya Basketball Federation (KBF) women’s Premier league champions Equity Banks can be replicated at the international scene. He will rely on his Hawks trio of current MVP Mercy Wanyama, Samba Mjomba and Hilda Indasi to get the job done. Losing finalists KPA have dynamic quartet of Natalie Akinyi, Betty Kananu, Yvonne Akinyi and 2015 Zone Five Club Championship MVP Seline Okumu in the team. Kenya will come up against Uganda, Tanzania, Rwanda, Burundi, Somalia, Egypt, South Sudan and hosts Egypt in the week-long competition. Winners will take part in the FIBA Africa Championships set for August 10 to 30 in Brazzaville, Congo. The Kenyan ladies lost to neighbours Uganda in the final of the 2015 qualifiers held in Kampala, Uganda while the men’s team failed to reach second round of the competition. KENYAN TEAMS Women: Natalie Akinyi, Samba Mjomba, Hilda Indasi (Captain), Grace Wanjiku, Georgia Adhiambo, Betty Kananu , Celine Okumu , Purity Adhiambo , Velma Awino, Yvonne Akinyi, Mercy Wanyama Coach: David Maina Men: James Mwangi , Michael Makiadi, Brian Namake, Griffin Ligare, Kevin Kigotho, Frankline Omondi, Evans Leting, Victor Bosire, Philip Ameny, Francis Ogolla, Situma Khaemba (Captain)Coach: Carey Odhaimbo  