A High Court in Nanyuki has issued orders stopping Laikipia County Government from re-advertising for construction of a 57-kilometre electric fence worth Sh96 million. Ndovu Power Fence and Ecosystem Limited obtained the order from Lady Justice Mary Kasango. Through lawyer Muriithi Kihara, the court heard that the company got the contract to put up a solar-powered electric fence in Rumuruti forest on February 11, 2015 at a cost of Sh96,700. The lawyer said there arose a dispute in the project after the county government breached the contract by advertising it in local dailies in January indicating that it had found a new contractor. The fence was to keep away wild animals from invading farms. The advert indicated that the initial tender had been cancelled after the contractor was involved in a malpractice. “The contract still subsists and the same has not been canceled as alleged in the advertisement. The company has performed its obligations under the contract and incurred expenses to the end while the government has breached the term by failing to pay,” the court heard. The lawyer said engaging a new contractor in the same project would cause the company to suffer irreparable loss. The company started the construction works on April, 2015 following a launch by Governor Joshua Irungu. It completed the first section of 20 kilometers on August 10, 2015 and asked for a certificate of completion from county government and a joint inspection, but there was no response. The company’s CEO Vincent Baragu, in his affidavit made of 41 grounds, indicated that the devolved government has refused to pay the money for work done and has breached the contract by re-advertising the tender. “The government was to make 30 per cent of the money after signing the contract, 17 per cent when the fence would be at 20 kilometres and the rest on completion,” said Mr Baragu. However, he said sections of the forest in Gatundia and Kiandege had been vandalised and involved in shot-circuiting. In reply, the government’s chief officer in charge of Infrastructure, Lands and Urban Development Peter Macharia said decision to have a new contractor was because the former purchased wrong fencing material. “The fence was not in conformity to the project designs, specifications and bill of quantities as envisaged in the contract. The company has refused to rectify the defects nor offer an explanation,” said Mr Macharia. He added that the contractor was directed to rectify but declined. The case was slated to come up for a pre-trial conference on March 13 before kicking off for a full hearing on March 16.  