Flamboyant Nairobi Senator Mike Sonko on Friday presented his nomination papers to the Jubilee Party to vie for Nairobi governor. Mr Sonko had claimed there was a plot to lock him out of the race, saying the Directorate of Criminal Investigation had delayed his Certificate of Good Conduct, a requirement for clearance to vie for the seat. “While others got their papers an hour after applying, mine took a whole two weeks. Now, we know there was a Principal Secretary behind the delay, but we tell him: Let the people decide,” Mr Sonko said at the Jubilee headquarters after presenting his papers. "TEAM NAIROBI" He was joined by Dagoretti South MP Dennis Waweru and former Starehe MP Bishop Margaret Wanjiru, who also presented papers to run for the same position, currently held by ODM’s Evans Kidero. The three, dubbed “Team Nairobi” now join a crowded race of Nairobi governor aspirants in the Jubilee team that also includes 2013 presidential candidate Peter Kenneth. Nominated MP Johnson Sakaja, who is also part of Team Nairobi, on Thursday quit the governor’s race and instead opted for that of the Senate. Mr Sonko was on Friday accompanied by hundreds of supporters, who brought the JP party headquarters in Pangani to a standstill, when he presented his papers. “People who go lying that they have been backed by the President or the establishment should remember how the Kibaki team tried to block President Kenyatta and he went on to rule, anyway. We will go to the people who have the votes,” said Mr Sonko. ASPIRANTS The team accused Mr Kenneth, who presented his papers on Wednesday, of purporting to be the preferred candidate backed by the party’s top leadership. “If you are not in Team Nairobi, forget about a seat in Nairobi. This is the team that is with the people,” said Bishop Wanjiru. Mr Sonko claimed aspirants for all other elective seats in the party support the team. Mr Kenneth has the support of Nairobi Jubilee MPs apart from Mr Waweru, and Mathare’s Steve Kariuki who Friday said he had no preferred candidate despite accompanying Mr Kenneth to present his papers on Wednesday. At the party headquarters, the team forced JP Head of Secretariat Raphael Tuju to assure them that the planned party nominations will be free and fair. “This is an assurance we give you today, We promise fair and credible nominations. We want a Jubilee candidate to win in Nairobi County,” said Mr Tuju.   Nominated MP opts to run for city county senator instead.