IN KAMPALA, UGANDAGeoffrey Kamworor on Saturday crossed the finish line, arms raised, in a mock victory as he warmed up for Sunday s 42nd IAAF World Cross Country Championships.But the defending champion is all too aware of the stiff competition expected when athletes from all over the world converge on the Kololo Independence Grounds for the biennial championships.Uganda are hosting the championships for the first time and have drawn a record 557 athletes who will also compete in the newly-introduced mixed relays. Kamworor is optimistic he will repeat what he did in Guiyang, China, two years ago when he broke away from sparring partner Bedan Karoki to breast the tape in spectacular fashion.Nation Sport caught up with him on a morning run in Kampala on Saturday as the champ assessed the course which he described as perfect. I have seen the course which is very good, including the obstacles which I thought would bring problems. It s not that bad. I want to run a good race and reclaim my title though I know the competition will be stiff, said Kamworor.Defending World Cross Country champion Geoffrey Kamworor crosses the finish line and celebrates when he had a feel of the Kololo Independence Ground in Kampala on March 25, 2017, venue of Sunday s Championships. Kamworor won the senior men s 10-kilometre race at the last championships in Guiyang, China, in 2015. PHOTO | JARED NYATAYA |IAAF President Sebastian Coe tours Kololo Grounds, venue for the World Cross Country Championship on March 25, 2017 in Kampala, Uganda. PHOTO | CHRIS OMOLLOAsked whether he fears his training mate and former World and Olympic marathon champion Stephen Kiprotich, Kamworor said he will do his best as he has the experience. I don t fear Kiprotich. In fact, I respect him so much. But I m happy we are meeting in a competition. I have the experience of winning and I will say may the best win, said a modest Kamworor.Richard Kimunyan, who is in the junior team, was elated after his mother came along with other fans from Kenya by bus in the #IAAFKampalaBusCampaign rally to cheer him up on his first global cross country mission.Team Kenya s Richard Kimunyang with his mother Sarah Tarkok onMarch 25, 2017 at Kampala s Kololo Independence Grounds, venue of Sunday s IAAF World Cross Country Championships. PHOTO | JARED NYATAYA |WON'T LET HER DOWN This is my first cross country championships and when my mother heard that I m in the Kenya team, she joined other fans that came by road to come and watch me run. I will not want to let her down and I will do my best, said Kimunyan.In the mixed relays, world 1,500 metres champion Asbel Kiprop will lead the Kenyan team. He says that he is excited to be the pioneer. I m so excited to be in this new category and I know we will do our best so that we take home all the medals available, said Kiprop. Beatrice Chepkoech, who is also in the relay team, said that she is optimistic they will do well today when they start the race at Kololo Independence Grounds. We have done good training and when we come here, its pure team work for us to win medals. We want our national anthem to be played on all the titles available, said Chepkoech. Kiprop said he will be using the race as a build up for the World Relays Championships that will be held in Bahamas in May.IAAF President Sebastian Coe (second right) fields questions from journalists during a press conference in Kampala, Uganda on March 25, 2016 on the eve of the World Cross Country Championship. With him are World 1500m champion Asbel Kiprop (left), Uganda's Stephen Kiprotich (second left), Uganda s Minister for Sports Charles Bakabulindi, Olympics 1500m gold medallist Faith Chepng'etich and Canada's Sasha Gollish (right). PHOTO | CHRIS OMOLLO |From left: World 1500m champion Asbel Kiprop, Olympics 1500m gold medallist Faith Chepng'etich, IAAF President Sebastian Coe, Canada's Sasha Gollish and Uganda's Stephen Kiprotich pose for photos after a press conference in Kampala, Uganda on March 25, 2016 on the eve of the World Cross Country Championship. PHOTO | CHRIS OMOLLO |NATION MEDIA GROUP Team Kenya head coach Juma Ndiwa said they had prepared well while in the training camp and what now remains is to win the medals. Our athletes have done enough training and I know they are going to run well and take all the medals available. We know the teams are strong but we did a lot of training to make sure we get good results, said Ndiwa.Team Kenya will not have it easy from their counterparts who changed citizenship who includes Bahrain s Olympic steeplechase champion Ruth Chebet and Eunice Chumba.USA will field a galaxy of former Kenyans including Samuel Chelanga, Leonard Korir, Shadrack Kipchirchir and Paul Chelimo in what has come to be popularly referred to as Kenya B .PROGRAM 13:30 Opening Ceremony14:00 Mixed Relay14:30 Under 20 Women1500 Medal Ceremony Mixed Relay1510 under 20 Men1540 Medal ceremony under 20 Women1555 Senior Women 1640 Medal Ceremony under 20 Men1655 Senior Men1730 Medal Ceremony Senior Women1745 Medal Ceremony Senior Men1800 Mass Race email print email print The IAAF has pledged more support to African countries to nurture young athletes. Governors are required by law to be university graduates.Disjointed development makes it difficult for companies that do similar work to gain from