President Uhuru Kenyatta and his Deputy William Ruto on Saturday made a joint appearance in Kiambu to dispel rumours of a simmering rift. The friction was first brought to the fore by two meetings: the meeting of President Kenyatta’s mother Mama Ngina with former President Daniel ara Moi in late January and by a follow-up meeting the President had with the former Head of State, who is his mentor. Instructively, Baringo Senator and Kanu chairman Gideon Moi, who has been involved in a supremacy battle with Mr Ruto, was present in this second meeting. While details of any agreement between Kanu and President Kenyatta’s Jubilee have never been divulged, Mr Ruto’s allies maintain they will not honour it. This particularly comes after Kanu declared it would support President Kenyatta’s re-election and not that of his deputy even though they will be running on the same ticket. “The DP is at the helm of Kalenjin paramountcy and he is the only one with the people’s mandate to negotiate on their behalf. We are treating Kanu as our competitor; we will be fielding candidates for seats in the Rift Valley and beyond,” Marakwet East MP and the DP’s ally, Mr Kangongo Bowen, said. A DEAL His sentiments come in the wake of reports that the former President could have secured a deal with President Kenyatta that includes Jubilee not fielding a candidate for Baringo senator. This scuttles what we understand is the DP’s plan to wipe out competition from his backyard when he runs for President. His allies say he has scouted for “a strong Jubilee senate candidate” to floor Mr Moi knowing that pushing the senator to political oblivion would allow him to, once and for all, shake off the long shadow of the senior Moi, his political father. “We are here by right. If there is any negotiation, it must be in writing and our people must agree to it. It is not an issue of two families (Mois and Kenyattas) sitting down and deciding our fate,” Mr Bowen said. A fortnight ago, Elgeyo-Marakwet Senator and DP’s confidante Kipchumba Murkomen told the Nation they cannot accede to such an arrangement with Kanu as it was merely the wishes of those who fear competition. We could not ascertain from the head of Jubilee secretariat Raphael Tuju whether they had express instructions not to field a candidate in Baringo, but our sources intimated no candidate had, at least by close of business on Friday, been cleared to seek the party’s nod for the Baringo senator’s seat. QUIETLY COMPLAINING Indeed, the DP’s 2022 ambition is seen as clouding many aspects of this year’s campaigns with some in government quietly complaining he had lined up preferred candidates in Jubilee bastions, individuals he hopes will be instrumental in his post-2017 campaigns. Presidents are usually lame ducks in their final terms. And while some have accused Mr Ruto of behaving like a co-president, others like nominated Senator Paul Njoroge have daringly asked him to halt his 2022 campaigns. By the same token, there are muted complaints among Mr Ruto’s allies that some senior bureaucrats in the Office of the President were out to cut him to size and stop him from creating an alternative centre of power. Dr Kiprono Chesang, a public affairs strategist, suggests that the reason Mr Ruto is campaigning as hard despite the undercurrents was that he is building networks for the future. “Whichever way one looks at it, we must see this within the frameworks of the succession of Mr Kenyatta. Both Ruto and Gideon work from the premise that to make a credible stab at the presidency, they must have Rift Valley solidly behind them.” Terming the current squabble as sibling rivalry between Moi’s children, one biological and the other political, Dr Chesang explains Mr Ruto is ahead, having earned the throne, while the other has a sense of entitlement. NO ENGAGEMENTS For a few days last month, the usually energetic Deputy President failed to have any public engagements and did not show up at State House when Egyptian President Abdel Fattah El-Sisi visited on February 18, sparking speculation. Flamboyant city lawyer Donald Kipkorir triggered an animated debate on social media last week when he wrote to President Kenyatta warning him against “messing up” with Mr Ruto. “Your Excellency, since your joint victory with William Ruto, there have been overt and covert efforts to undermine him. And at times, signs from State House indicate that the undermining has some support.” He left no doubt that Senator Moi’s renewed onslaught on Mr Ruto was the problem. “At the moment, Kalenjin Nation may be in some turbulence, but there is no power vacuum. Let those who want to support you, support you without behaving like the spoiled Herod Princess who asked for the head of John the Baptist on a platter,” he wrote in the open letter. On Saturday, President Kenyatta’s men sought to quell any rumours of tension. 'TAKES CHARGE' “The DP does not have to wait for 2022 to exercise power. The man is running the government. They run it with the President and, in his absence, he takes charge like we have seen before,” said Jubilee Party vice-chairman and the President’s confidante David Murathe. But he added that it was in Mr Ruto’s best interests that they secure a second term by forging a united front. “There is no 2022 without 2017,” he said. According to Dr Chesang, Mr Ruto has real political options that would be devastating for President Kenyatta if he chose to explore them. But he added the rider that he would only pursue them if the apparent political onslaught by Mr Moi appears to be supported by Mr Kenyatta or his men. “An uncomfortable dynamic within the relationship, a scratch point, is beginning to set in. President Kenyatta might need to come out strongly and stand with his man. It will get messy if he were to play the two (Senator Moi and DP Ruto),” he said. The post-election dynamic, Dr Chesang argues, is such that the President and his deputy have very little use for each other from September. 'STATE RESOURCES' “Uhuru doesn’t need Ruto after winning the second term. Once in he can use State resources to sustain himself in power. Politically, the UhuRuto dynamic collapses.” Other pundits traced the genesis of the apparent friction to the enhancement of the Number Two office by the 2010 Constitution, a far cry from what the first US Vice-President John Adams called “the most insignificant office that ever the invention of man contrived or his imagination conceived.” Successful running mates in Kenya are near co-presidents. And they don’t serve at the whim of the President. But it is the greater fight, plotting and counter-plotting by both sides that will decide whether this will end well. Senator Moi on Thursday led his troops into a strategy meeting in Nakuru before Kanu secretary-general Nick Salat announced that they were targeting at least 30 MPs and eight governors in the August 8 polls. The Deputy President has also met his troops to plan how to vanquish Kanu in the larger Rift Valley. It will be a battle of the titans. Following Kanu’s endorsement of Mr Kenyatta’s second term in office, Mr Salat says they have been energised in the Rift. 'TO EXTEND' “We have had to extend the deadline for returning the papers to March 10 so as not to lock anyone out. Since we declared we will be backing President Kenyatta in the elections, we have had to increase the number of staff from four to 40 to attend to aspirants,” he said. In a conversation with the Nation, the Baringo Senator was guarded in his 2022 plans, but he stressed that Mr Ruto had never asked him for his support. “He has never told me he wants to be President in 2022. He has never asked for my support,” he said. Mr Ruto is contending with a strong wave of opposition in his backyard from two frontiers, one spearheaded by the Moi family and the other by the indefatigable Bomet Governor Isaac Ruto of Chama Cha Mashinani. Observers also see the powerful Deputy President’s hand in the bruising battle for the Jubilee ticket in the Nairobi governor’s race. The entry of former Gatanga MP Peter Kenneth appears to have disturbed the balance of power since he is widely believed to be the favourite of the Mt Kenya power brokers to succeed President Kenyatta in 2022 should he secure another five years in office. 'TEAM NAIROBI' This automatically makes him Mr Ruto’s competitor. Although he has denied it, there have been reports that he supports “Team Nairobi” – a group of politicians comprising Senator Mike Sonko, Dagoretti South MP Dennis Waweru, nominated MP Johnson Sakaja and former Starehe MP Bishop Margaret Wanjiru – that has been conducting a sustained campaign against Mr Kenneth. Those who see Mr Ruto’s hand in Nairobi politics say he is keen to block Mr Kenneth from having a bigger say in the post-Kenyatta era. Sonko chose to downplay the matter. “Jubilee is one unit. We support President Kenyatta now and his deputy in 2022 for State House. As for Nairobi, we do not mind anyone but Peter Kenneth.” Mr Murathe explained that the best Mr Kenneth can get in 2022 was to be Mr Ruto’s running mate. Similar noises have been witnessed in Embu, Mandera, Kisii and Narok where Mr Ruto is said to be fronting his allies. So what options does Mr Ruto have? Dr Chesang says there is no chance of there being any other Jubilee ticket other than UhuRuto. But after 2017 “he will have to start contending with Uhuru Kenyatta’s ethnic successor and the remnants of the National Super Alliance.”  