A son of the architect of the Sh7.6 billion Triton oil scandal, Yagnesh Devani, has been dragged to court and charged with assaulting his mother. A subdued Raj Harikrisna Devani appeared before Kiambu Principal Magistrate Ms Stella Atambo on Wednesday and denied assaulting Bambi Harikrisna Devani on Tuesday night. DENY BAIL The attack allegedly took place at their home in Runda estate, Nairobi. The court was told that the accused assaulted and injured the complainant at round 9.30pm. The prosecution, led by State Counsel Diana Orago, asked the court to deny him bail, on grounds that he is likely to continue assaulting his parent since they live in the same house. SMS To support her application, Ms Orago told the court that apart from previous assault and abuse incidents against his mother, the accused sent a threatening text message to the woman, warning that that “she would remember the day.” Raj Harikrisna is accused of sending the message at 11 pm after his arrest. The prosecutor said all the details of the case had been reported to police and requested for at least one day to provide evidence. WARRANTS Further, the prosecution told the court that the accused has pending warrants of arrest related to two other cases in Narok and Milimani Law Courts. Raj is accused of damaging a helicopter in Narok and misusing a firearm in Westlands, Nairobi, the prosecutor said. According to the charge sheets seen by the Nation, Raj was charged with damaging a helicopter, Reg No 5Y-EVU at Maasai Game Reserve in Narok South at the Narok Law Courts on May 4, 2014. SH15 MILLION The copter, the property of Woodnorth agencies, was valued at Sh15 million. At the Milimani Law Courts, he was charged with misusing a Beretta Pistol, No. 40 S&W 028552MN, at Shimmers Plaza in Westlands, Nairobi, on January 6, 2014. Defense lawyer Steve Kimathi objected the prosecution request, saying no compelling reasons had been given to deny Raj bail. LOCKED UP No proof that warrant of arrests had been issued against the accused had been produced in  court, he said. Kimathi told the court that the prosecution did not provide any evidence to prove that Raj had previously assaulted people. Ms Atambo ordered that Raj be locked up until Thursday to give the prosecution time to provide documentary evidence to back its application.   