Dear Kitoto, I have been a regular reader of the weekly column and, having undergone theological training in Christian counselling using your book,  Biblical Principles of Marriage, I must say you have positively transformed many people. I thank  you and the Nation Media Group for the good work. Looking forward to getting a book from you to enhance my knowledge and skills. Harrison ***** Mr Kitoto, My name is Gloria Kinyanjui and I  am 23 years old. You asked what I have learnt but honestly, I do not know where to start because you have not only made me wiser in my youth, but also encouraged me to be stronger in whatever I go through in life. Through you my learning about the fundamentals of family, marriage and relationships became easier. Having been brought up in a not-so-stable family, I have struggled with marriage and courtship. This is because I was not sure whether all men would treat me the way I saw my dad and the men around me treat their wives. My favourite article is “What I wish I knew before I said I Do”. The dynamics in that article made me not only admire your beautiful marriage, but also taught me about godly marriages. I have learnt to be a patient and  all-round woman. Thank you, Mr Kitoto, for being my mentor with regard to healthy relationships. I appreciate what you are doing. ******* Mr Kitoto, My most memorable advice was from the article, “Why should I bother to get married?” where you say that marriage is pleasurable and stimulating and requires hard work from both partners. You emphasise openness and transparency as some of the most important factors to a happier marriage. Mutual submission, values, shared dreams, and mutual goals are also key factors in any marriage. I have learnt that marriage is a relationship where two people must listen, compromise and respect each other. It’s an arrangement that requires a multitude of decisions to be made together. Listening, respecting and compromising go a long way in keeping peace and harmony. It is, indeed, true that marriage is a partnership of two unique people who bring out the  best in each other, and who know that even though they are wonderful as individuals, they are even better together. Thank you, Mr Kitoto, for you have increased my knowledge and changed my perception of marriage  and made me look at it in a more positive light. God bless you. Maureen  Hi Maureen, Gloria and Harrison On behalf of the team that makes this happen,  not forgetting Nation Media Group, we are grateful to know that this column has made a difference. Learning in an endless process. After all the failures we face in relationships and life in general, we must commit to a strong learning culture if we are to make our relationships memorable. An anonymous writer once said that the only mistake is the one from which we learn nothing. The best life we can live lies  in the choices we make today and in future. Kitoto  