As Kenyan captain Victor Wanyama prepares for his 29th Premier League start in a row for Tottenham at home to Burnley on Saturday , he says it is his manager Mauricio Pochettino who has helped to make him one of the best holding midfielders in the world. Wanyama first joined Pochettino at Southampton in a move from Celtic in July, 2013, before hooking up again with the manager at Spurs last summer in what now looks like a bargain £11 million deal (Sh1.3 billion). Second-placed Spurs described Wanyama as “an absolute revelation in the holding midfield role” this season and he remains the clubs only ever-present in the Premier League having started all 28 games so far. But the admiration is mutual as Wanyama himself said there was nowhere else he wanted to go last summer. “I looked at where the club was heading and with the manager, I knew I couldn’t go wrong. I know he (Pochettino) builds for the future and wants to fight for everything. I couldn’t resist that,” he told the Tottenham’s website. Wanyama has become a firm favourite among Spurs fans this season, with few players in the division able to match the Kenyan’s physicality in the centre of the park. Such an aggressive style of play suits Pochettino’s high energy brand of football but Wanyama is adamant his manager’s influence is not been restricted to the field of play. “Mauricio has improved my game in all aspects, everything. It’s not just football, in life as well. “He’s been able to teach me a lot inside and outside football, how to live with people, how to be humble. “I’ve learned a lot of things through him and I don’t just see him as a manager but as a father figure,” Wanyama added. “I’d never had a manager who wants you to improve day by day like him,” said Wanyama. “He works on your weakness, he’s a good role model and he doesn’t just look at football. “We worked hard and after a while, you could see the difference because in the games I felt like the games were easier and we could run for 100 minutes because we were fitter.” Part of the reason for Wanyama’s success is his formidable partnership  with Belgian international Mousa Dembele in the midfield engine room, their protection not only helping the team maintain the best defensive record.   Five major clubs are scrapping over the three remaining Champions League berths.