Surprise national women champion Irene Cheptai has tipped the star-studded Team Kenya senior women to scoop all podium positions at the World Cross Country Championships in Kampala. The biennial event will be held next Sunday at Kololo Independence ground. Cheptai said the team, comprising defending champion Agnes Tirop, 1,500m Olympic champion Faith Chepng’etich, Lillian Kasait, World 3,000 metre steeplechase champion Hyvin Kiyeng and Africa 10,000 metres champion Alice Aprot was capable of making a 1-2-3-4-5-6 finish. The former world cross country silver medallist , whose star has taken a meteoric rise, however, was quick to state that there was no clear favourite among the Kenyan athletes. Speaking at Kigari Teachers Training College after some road works along the Mbiruri-Kirimiri Forest-Kevote route, Cheptai who comfortably won the national trials last month, said everyone was in top form and in with a chance of scooping the top position. “We are praying to God to give us strength and help us remain in the same form, without injuries. The morale is high and we want to bring all the medals. Everyone is hungry for a win and we are a seeking success in Uganda,” said Cheptai. Faith Chepng’etich, who is also the Team Kenya deputy captain said she was raring to go after shaking off an injury that prevented her from taking part in the 2015 event. She said she was in great shape and would help boost Kenya’s title defence. “It is all about team work. The team is strong and the training is helping us each day. We will help one another to succeed. We are hoping to get all the medals,” said Chepng’etich who trains in Keringet, Nakuru county. Kasait, however, remained cagey, only saying she had great expectations in Uganda. “Please don’t ask me about whether I expect to win the race or not. We are focusing on glory for the country. We are praying that we remain in good health so that we can run well on that day,” said Kasait. Kiyeng said her form had greatly improved since last month’s trials and was ready to face any opposition. She said the warm weather in Kigari was also helping her adjust to run in hot temperatures as anticipated at Kololo. “I started training late before the trials but I have continued to improve. The training in hot weather will help my body gain resistance when I compete in Uganda. However, we are focusing more on the team since that is what cross country is all about,” said Kiyeng.   Kimunyan, Ladema, Kirui and Munguti all eyeing podium positions in Kampala.