Lamu Governor Issa Timamy now wants serious action taken against secondary school headteachers in the county whom he says are disobeying President Uhuru Kenyatta’s directive not to send students home for fees as drought ravages the county. During his visit in Lamu to commission the building of the 135 Lamu-Witu-Garsen Highway early this month, the President ordered secondary school principals in areas affected by drought not to send students home for fees and promised that the government would ensure there is adequate food supply to enable the students go on with their learning amidst the famine. 37 STUDENTS But while addressing journalists in Lamu Town on Friday, an agitated Governor Timamy said he had already received a list of 37 students from various schools in drought-hit areas of Lamu who had been sent home for fees since last week despite the president’s directive. Mr Timamy said it is unfortunate that despite the order by the President, some principals in the county have still gone ahead and sent students home for fees. He said he had already presented the list of the 37 students to County Commissioner Joseph Kanyiri for disciplinary action to be instigated against the school heads and to ensure the students are allowed back to their respective schools as soon as possible. PARENTS COMPLAIN “Despite the President’s directive, some school heads in Lamu have defied the order and gone ahead to send away students from school due to lack of fees. “Almost every day, parents have been coming to my office complaining over the same. “I received a list of 37 names of Form Three and Four students who are at home because of fees and I have already handed them to the county commissioner for action to be taken against their principals,” said Mr Timamy. He said the national government promised to provide relief food to schools in Lamu in order to keep children in the institutions. He said the promise has already been fulfilled since a food consignment has already been dispatched to Lamu. The governor also said his government has also been assisting parents by paying fees during the current dry period. ‘We have been issuing cheques to various schools to pay fees for needy students from drought-hit areas. “The government has also dispatched relief food to schools. There is no reason for teachers to chase students away of school,” said Mr Timamy.   Leaders urge government and WFP to supply food to residents and schools.