National Olympic Committee of Kenya affiliates have protested to the International Olympic Committee over what they said were schemes by current Kenyan Olympic officials to hold elections under the controversial current constitution. A group led by Kenya Table Tennis president Andrew Mudibo claimed that National Olympic Committee of Kenya (Nock) officials were against some changes in the constitution which they say had the backing from the International Olympic Committee (IOC). Mudibo singled out Article 20(1) that dwells on voting where it was proposed that the executive be excluded from voting at the Electoral Congress and a run-off called in case of a tie, instead of the Nock president breaking the tie. Mudibo said that Nock failed to abide with IOC’s directive to circulate the amended constitution days before the aborted General Assembly on Tuesday. DOUBLE STANDARDS “Instead, Nock opted to ambush the federations with a draft document which we did not know if it was the correct documents or not,” said Mudibo in a letter to IOC head of institutional relations and governance Jerome Poivey. Mudibo said the move to adjourn the General Assembly by Nock chairman Kipchge Keino when progress was being made was one of the way Nock was using to derail to constitution review process. However, Nock deputy treasurer Stephen Soi accused Mudibo’s team of double standards when it came to voting on the amended clauses.Soi said that Mudibo’s team wanted the executive barred from voting on the amended clauses yet they sought the exemption of the seven new Commonwealth federations from voting during Tuesday’s General Assembly. Mudibo’s team wanted seven new Commonwealth federations to start voting after the 2020 Tokyo Olympic Games. “If the executive can’t vote at the General Assembly then we ought to have the new Commonwealth federations taking part in the elections. “The current constitution must be applied evenly and not selectively. The new amendments have not come to effect,” said Soi. Mudiobo claimed that the decision to adjourn the meeting on Tuesday was not agreed either by the entire Executive Committee members or the General Assembly. “It was a decision of four people in the Executive,” claimed Mudibo.   Registration for the 18th Safaricom Lewa Marathon to be run on June 24 at the Lewa Conservancy starts Thursday.