More than Sh13.7 billion has been set aside in the 2017-2018 budget to go towards honouring the teachers’ salaries agreement, the chairperson of the parliamentary committee for education has said. The agreement was reached between the Kenya National Union of Teachers and their employer Teachers Service Commission last year. Speaking during the official opening of Kahawa Wendani Primary School-the first ever primary school in the area whose construction was funded by the Ruiru Constituency Development fund, chairperson of the committee Sabina Chege said the government was keen on honouring the agreement to avert strikes in schools in the next four years. “This makes Jubilee government the first government to ever grant teachers an official agreement in the history of this country. The next review of teachers' salaries shall be done again in 2021,” she said. Ms Chege pointed out that already consultative meetings between the respective teachers unions and government agencies have been held to avert possible strikes and assured parents that learning will not be disrupted whatsoever. The agreement will see the P1 grade phased out to have the lowest paid primary school teacher take home Sh27,195 as their secondary colleagues take home Sh34,995 starting July 1,2017. Ms Chege, who had been accompanied by the deputy Director of Basic Education Sarah Kinyanjui, area MP Esther Gathogo, Kiambu Woman Representative Annah Nyokabi and Woman Representative aspirant Gladys Chania, said that the government has also scrapped off all activity fees charged in public schools in a bid to ensure that more children get access to basic education in the country. She also promised to ensure that the new school receives more Teachers Service Commission teachers to sufficiently serve the already enrolled 200 pupils comfortably. They supported calls to have voters use their identification cards to nominate their preferred candidates. “If the party insists on voters using smart cards to participate in the nominations, many will end up being locked out,” Ms Chania said.  