Nyeri Senator Mutahi Kagwe has expressed interest of joining the race for the county governor’s seat in the August 8 elections. Mr Kagwe spoke Sunday at Ngangarithi AIPCA in Nyeri Town where, together with another candidate, Dr Thuo Mathenge, attended Sunday service. The senator told Mr Mathenge to stop panicking even before he declares his (Mr Kagwe's) bid and prepare for a bruising political battle. Mr Mathenge had called on the senator to defend his senate seat and support him for governor. He said he is best suited to be the next governor of Nyeri since he is among the leading employers in the county. But Mr Kagwe declined to respond to him, instead saying he will wait until after the burial of former governor Nderitu Gachagua. “I do not want to speak politics, in honour of former Governor Nderitu Gachagua. “Wait until the late governor is laid to rest. So stop panicking even before I declare my bid. “Let us first burry the governor then we will meet at the political arena,” said Mr Kagwe. ADVISED YOUTH The senator advised the youth not to be misused by politicians to cause mayhem during the campaigns for the forthcoming elections. “Do not allow politicians to misuse you to hurl abuses [at] their opponents, either verbally, through social media or even circulating abusive leaflets,” he said. Mr Kagwe called on politicians to practice mature politics as they sell their policies to voters, saying they (voters) will have the final say. Mr Mathenge called on the new AIPCA Archbishop Julius Njoroge to help foster peace in the church which has been marred by infightings for long. His sentiments were echoed by Nyeri Town MP Esther Murugi, who also called on the faithful to pray for peace in the country. “We also need to pray for this country so that the stalemate between [the] doctors and the government can come to an end because if doctors do not resume work, we as the common wananchi will continue suffering,” said Ms Murugi.   Nderitu Gachagua was not flamboyant and hardly flaunted his wealth.