If you conducted an informal poll and asked a number of people what they remember about their time in university, most will probably talk about the fun they had, thanks to the new-found freedom that comes with college. Some, however, looked far beyond the freedom and the fun that came with it. They spared time to participate in club activities and initiatives and other causes. These individuals understood the value of networking, which gave them strategic advantage over their peers in readiness to take on the job market and life after school. In this issue, we shine a spotlight on various university students’ associations and the opportunities they offer their members. Science and Technology Students Association (Technical University of Kenya)   Year started: 2012 Active members: 200 This science club was started five years ago with the objective of promoting the culture of scientific innovation among its members, and to offer them an avenue to interact with local and international stakeholders in the sphere of science. John Chege, a Third Year student at the institution, is the current Vice Chairperson. What values govern the operations of the club? Our association is anchored on the values of industry, discipline and enthusiasm. Innovation requires constant research to come up with new ideas. Science has neither shortcuts nor does it allow room for doubt. Presentation of findings must also be accurate. What exactly goes on here? We periodically hold workshops where experts drawn from specific disciplines of science share their knowledge with our members. We also participate in annual national science and technology conferences and seminars. Here, we meet and interact with scientists, researchers and business people. We also arrange academic visits to various research institutes in Kenya and develop projects to showcase during scientific exhibitions. Apart from these, we conduct inter-university club interactions where members share scientific ideas. Giving back to the society is at the heart of our policy, and every semester, we visit secondary schools around Nairobi to mentor young learners. How does one stand to gain for participating in club activities? To access some services and facilities in the university, one must be a member of an active professional or support group. Industries and research institutes do not admit individual learners. Our members are also exempt from fees to participate in exhibitions. A professional association increases the bargaining power of members. What are your most notable achievements? We have also successfully worked on, and exhibited two projects, including extraction of biodiesel fuel from animal fat and an orange-peel teeth whitener which was exhibited by our member, Margaret Jepkosgei, during the recent 15th Annual Inter-University Exhibition at Catholic University of East Africa. We are currently testing a biological control of dengue fever at the coast. What do you think hurts the culture of innovation among students in Kenya? First, investment on research is too little. Due to its high cost,  our universities are unable to fund research programmes. Secondly, the sluggish state of our economy demotivates students. There is heightened anxiety that even after school, graduates might not get jobs. Others are disoriented because they were selected to study courses they are not passionate about. This destroys their vigour to research and invent. What would you tell students who think that clubs and associations are a waste of time? You are losing a great deal. Alone you can move fast, but as a group, you will go far. Invest your time productively by involving yourself in as many activities as possible while in college because this way, you gain experience. Being the leader of a science club requires me to be actively involved in all our research endeavours. Most of my time therefore is spent researching, which puts me in a strategic position in terms of innovation, in this way, I have greatly benefitted.  ****** Moi University Press Club, The 3rd Eye   Motto: Independent and Vigilant Number of Members: 400 The 3rd Eye club of Moi University enjoys a cult-like following among the students of Moi University’s main campus. Ivy Aseka is the current Editor-in-Chief while Linet Amuli is the Public Relations Officer. Why was the club formed? Aseka: The club was established in 1989 with two main objectives: to keep university students in the loop of happenings within the university and outside, and as a platform for budding writers and journalists to practice. How are you able to remain cohesive as a club despite the inconsistent school calendar? Linet: There are students on session at any given time, besides, our members are constantly on the lookout for information wherever they are, so our audience is kept abreast of all that is happening. What are the main activities undertaken by the club? Aseka: We primarily write news and features. We publish stories on Monday, Wednesday and Friday of every week. Besides print, we are also in broadcast media. Our journalists host radio shows on Moi University FM (MU FM), the aim to interact with comrades and discuss matters of interest to the university community. Linet: We also film documentaries annually, highlighting key events that shaped the welfare of students during that particular academic year. We also keep the Student Governing Council in check by whistleblowing whenever we detect abuse of power. Aseka: The 3rd Eye participates in community service, for instance, we visit the sick and donate clothes to the underprivileged in the local community. What project are you currently working on? Aseka: We are working on a documentary that discusses emergency contraceptive pills among college women. It explores the downside of using these as a method of family planning. You host guests every semester… Aseka: We organise a media week every semester and invite top media personalities. We have hosted Micheal Njenga of Citizen TV, Alex Chamwada, Johnston Mwakazi, Aliya Msenya and KTN’s Timothy Otieno. These one-on-one interactions with top media names in the media challenges and inspires our writers and reporters. What influence does this club have among Moi University students? Linet: To start with, we have over 43,000 likes on Facebook and 2,500 followers on Twitter. Majority are current and former students of Moi University, as well as a few outsiders, who subscribe to our features. Also, various student groups advertise their events on our publications. In a nutshell, our presence is felt across Moi University and beyond. Who are some of the alumni the club has nurtured? Aseka: Timothy Otieno, a reporter at KTN, Tony Irungu of BBC and William Dekker, a PR strategist. A former member, James Ndone, is a Graduate Assistant in the School of Communication at Illinois State University in the US. What aspirations does the club have? Aseka: We envision a club that will be a key player in agenda-setting among young people in Kenya. The team is full of energy. Our mustard seed is sprouting. How have you gained from being an active member of this club? I am a better writer, and because of this, I have gotten writing contracts with several blogs from which I earn an income.  ****** Nairobi University Arts Students Association (NUARSA)   Members: 8,000 Year started: 1980 Nairobi University Arts Students Association, (NUARSA) is one of the oldest associations in Kenyan universities and colleges. Originally started to address concerns among art students, today, the association mainly focuses on networking among students and professionals in various disciplines, and is open for all students. Maurice Haya is the Chairperson while Rebecca Ndeto is the association’s official in charge of Gender. Do you think participation in association activities matters? Rebecca: Exposure of members to the job market through interactions with professionals is the rationale behind the establishment of NUARSA. The corporate world has become extremely dynamic today, and it is through constant and close engagement with the professional world that our members are able to learn critical lessons and to strategically position themselves in readiness for the job market and life after college. What activities do you engage in as NUARSA? Maurice: We host Open Days where corporates in various sectors interact with our members, who establish important contacts and networks. Many of our members have earned internships and even job offers through such engagements. The club also organises talks, events that impact on our members academically, socially and professionally. We invite leaders in various sectors, who give talks to our members. During these workshops, members get a chance to learn what a bachelor’s degree in arts entails, and the different career prospects there are. Rebecca: We also have informal interactions such as dinners and hikes, where our members mingle with professors, lecturers and other departmental heads in the school of arts. It is through such fun activities that we are able to bridge the distance between students and their lecturers. Maurice: NUARSA Cultural Week hosted by our association is the most exciting period of the semester in the University of Nairobi. During the one week event, students showcase their culinary, photography, dancing, and drawing skills, among other abilities. The occasion climaxes with the crowning of Mr and Ms Arts. Who runs the affairs of the society? Do you have an organisation structure? Maurice: The association is headed by the chairperson with the help of others such as the treasurer, secretary general and officer in charge of gender. These officials are elected by members every semester. All the businesses of the association are overseen by these officials with the guidance of our patron. Who funds your activities? Maurice: It is a requirement that every club and society in the University of Nairobi to have a budget that must be approved by among others, the patron of the society. The university finances the largest proportion of our budget while members’ contributions and donations from other entities take care of the rest. We write proposals detailing our activities and the cost estimates, upon which the university releases the money. Every semester we operate with a budget of about Sh200,000. How do you mobilise members and other people to participate in your activities? Rebecca: We draft a calendar of activities to be undertaken at the beginning of every semester during an all-members meeting. We then use social media, class representatives, poster and flyers to publicise these events. What influence does this club have among UoN students? Maurice: NUARSA is one of the revered student associations in the University of Nairobi. It is out of this that as the chairperson, I sit in the Students Disciplinary Committee. Responsibility within the leadership and teamwork among members is what has made this association a success. Every participant is allowed to contribute to ideas and resources, but crucial is the understanding that active participation by a member is for their own benefit. Additionally, NUARSA accords equal attention to all. What are some of the aspirations of the club? Rebecca: We recently rolled out an exchange programme with Soka University in Japan. The first batch of beneficiaries will visit Japan in April this year. We hope to have more such programmes with other universities in Africa. What have you gained from leading this club? I enjoy close contact with the university administration, and as a result, I am privy to how organisations operate - who knows, I might even end up getting a job at university thanks to the networks I have made! ******* Pwani University Environmental Club   Years started: 2009. Members: 100 Slogan: Take care of nature, it takes care of you This club was founded with the aim of putting a stop to littering of the beach by tourists. The group activities give members a chance to interact with each other, and to have fun. Juliet Kamene is the Chairperson of the club. What does your association do? To protect marine life and maintain the beauty of the beach, we collect plastic bags, bottles, cloth remains and other inorganic debris left behind by beach visitors. In conjunction with residents, we hold clean-up days in Kilifi town. We also educate locals on the importance of a clean and safe environment. Another core endeavour of the club is tree planting, where we involve the entire university, residents and local primary schools. In this same vein, we place name tags on trees species in our university to facilitate learning. As a club, we support the national campaign that targets a 10 per cent forest cover by 2030. What features make this club outstanding? We were the first club to conduct a sustained campaign to promote clean beaches in Kilifi. The botanical garden in our campus where people learn about various tree species is the club’s brainchild. How have students responded to your initiatives? Hundreds turn up whenever we have field activities. Tree-planting particularly attracts many students and university staff. Residents also visit the university garden to take photos, hold meetings and even rest. This is encouraging, since it is an appreciation of our work. Do you work with any environmental agencies? We work hand in hand with NEMA officials. Their officers visit once in a while to educate us on environmental issues. NEMA also hosts us during the World Environment Day. We have also worked with A Rocha Kenya in bird monitoring. You must need money to fulfil these responsibilities - where does your funding come from? We receive financial support from various quarters, including the County Government of Kilifi and NEMA, who are always happy to help. What impact has volunteering had on you ? First, leading a large group of people and constantly planning various activities has taught me to be a good planner and honed my organisational skills. Secondly, my environmental conservation efforts won me an internship with Haller Park. (Nature Park in Bamburi, Mombasa) What goals does the club have? Foremost, we aspire to be the leading environmental watchdog in Kilifi County by persistently mobilising residents to be environmentally conscious. We also intend to participate in environmental research programmes within and outside the university. A safe and clean environment is feasible with a change of attitude among people.  