Nyeri Woman Representative Priscilla Nyokabi has pleaded with voters to re-elect her promising to strive harder to deliver better results. Speaking at Gataragwa Girls High School in Kieni West where she commissioned a Sh10 million modern dormitory, Ms Nyokabi said she would perform better in her second term. "If you re-elect me, I will work harder than my first term. I urge the parents to help me solicit for votes in churches, in your families and even in your villages," she pleaded. She urged the national government through the Ministry of Water and Irrigation to move with speed in constructing two mega dams in Kieni constituency that will provide water for domestic use and agriculture. The Narumoru and Karemenu dams worth Sh13 billion, Ms Nyokabi said, will be a boost to local socio-economic status through the creation of informal jobs and increasing food security in the semi-arid area. READ: Govt to construct 20 dams in Mount Kenya region The region is among those worst hit by the ravaging drought and has been a continuous beneficiary of relief food from government and aid agencies. READ: Alarm as drought crisis worsens She was accompanied by the school's Board of Management chairman Muthoga Ngera. Ms Nyokabi said once the four-storey building is complete it will house 360 students. She added that she will make sure every pupil gets secondary education by utilising the Affirmative Action Fund to provide bursaries. Principal Grace Karimi lauded the project since it will boost the academic morale of the students. Mr Karimi wants the mean score to climb to 7.89 from 6.8. The MP is seeking re-election on Jubilee Party but is facing opposition from formidable opponents such as Ms Rahab Mukami, who came in second in the 2013 General Election, and newcomers Rose Komu and Elizabeth Wamuyu. The Party of National Unity, under leadership of Meru Governor Peter Munya, has fielded Ms Cecilia Ndung’u, a former official in the Nyeri County administration, for the same position.  