Nairobi Senator Mike Sonko, who is aspiring to be the next city governor on a Jubilee Party ticket has hinted at joining the opposition National Super Alliance (Nasa), alleging a plot to deny him the ruling party s ticket.Mr Sonko has also dismissed orders to face the party s disciplinary committee for being involved in violence.The committee had ordered him to appear after he last week clashed with supporters of his bitter rival, Mr Peter Kenneth. If Nasa assures me of a party ticket, I will have no choice but to join them. Nasa is a coalition of people, not devils, same thing to Jubilee so there is no problem if I join them, Mr Sonko said in a radio interview, later repeating the comments during a roadside stopover in Ngara, Nairobi.Mr Sonko has alleged a plot that he says is being hatched at the very heart of the Jubilee leadership to deny him the ticket in favour of Mr Kenneth.HONEST BROKERBut President Kenyatta has disputed the claims, saying he will not interfere with the nominations but is ready to be an honest broker in the feud. All I want is for the governor of Nairobi to come from Jubilee. And if they come to me and say that they want to reach a consensus, I will do it. I will be an independent and honest broker, President Kenyatta said of the Nairobi Jubilee politics.Mr Sonko alleged bias in his being summoned to appear before the party for disciplinary action. SUMMONEDOthers who have also been summoned are governors Mwangi wa Iria (Murang a) and Joseph Ndathi (Kirinyaga), as well as Nakuru East MP David Gikaria. They are saying that I broke things worth Sh7 million. I will not pay that fine and I will not appear before the committee. I know they might use this to throw me out of the party. And I have no problem. I am ready to join other parties, said Mr Sonko.He dismissed the possibility of running for the post as an independent candidate. Some Jubilee politicians are plotting to have me as an independent so that we can [split] the votes with the governor (Dr Evans) Kidero, so that their person can win, he said. email print email print KRA and Knec ordered to stop further interference in Mombasa governor&#039;s constitutional rights. PS in Thwake Dam row now moved from Water ministry to Enterprise Development Department.