South Africa’s Jaco Ahlers remained at the top of the leader board at the close of round one in this year’s Barclays Kenya Open at the par 71 Muthaga Golf Club course on Thursday. Ahlers, one of the players who have been on the European Tour, had a low 29 at the back nine where he started his round which included an eagle three for a start at the 10th. He then birdied the 12th and held on to the 16th where he begun his three back-to-back birdies (on the 16th, 17th and 18th). Turning to the front nine, Ahlers birdied the par three second only to drop two shots at the par five fourth, although he closed the nine with a birdie for an excellent 64 which remained at the top of the leader board to the end. Five players tied on six under par in a tight round that saw 89 returning level par or better. Those on six under par were Sweden’s Jens Dantrop and compatriot Oscar Stark, Welshman Rhys Davies, Oscar Lengden also from Sweden and Finland’s Kalle Samooja.   Davies bogeyed the third but picked up birdies on sixth, eighth, ninth, 10th, 14th, 17th and 18th while Langden played a bogey-free round that included birdies on the first, fourth, seventh and eighth at the front nine and 10th and 17th. Among the locals, Simon Ngige from Thika Sports Club was tying with 15 others on four under par 67 in 13th place. Ngige, who had seven birdies in all, dropped three shots two at the front nine and one at the back nine. He will definitely be one of the Kenyans to watch if he can carry over that form to today’s second round. Despite the three bogeys, Ngige said his game was solid and that he was very familiar with the course. “I know for one to score well here, you must remain on course, I will try and minimize bogeys at all cost henceforth,” said Ngige. Meanwhile, Kenya Amateur Strokeplay champion Alfred Nandwa fired two under par 69 to keep his chance of clinching the amateur title very high. Staring at the back nine, Nandwa bogeyed 11th, but birdied the 10th and 16th, and fourth and ninth and dropped shots at the second hole. Behind Nandwa were Riz Charania and David Odhiambo on one under par while Stefan Andersen and Richard Ainley were on level par 71. Long-hitting Dismas Indiza recovered from four bogeys at the back nine to close the day one one par 72. He was grouped with many others including Tony Omuli.     Friday’s second round is set for 7am for those who played in the afternoon in the first round. The winner of the Open will bag a cash prize of 35,200 Euros (Sh3.9 million) and a chance to earn a European Tour Card.   Over 25 touring professional golfers have brought along their caddies.