Q. I’m a 26-year-old working as a teller in one of the local banks. Since the new banking rules took effect late last year, there has been a massive retrenchment exercise within our bank. We are now working for longer hours, and even the whole day on Saturdays, but with the same amount of pay. This job now feels more like torture than work. Is the bank justified in this kind of treatment for its employees?  I know you are grateful that you have not been affected by the retrenchment process you describe, but I am glad that you will not just sit back and allow your employer to disrespect your time. Sometimes employers make rushed decisions in phasing out some positions to make quick savings and show a healthy bottom line, but without being very clear on the impact of the abolished role to the rest of the business. That is how you end up with a situation such as the one you describe, with remaining employees taking up extra roles, leading to work overload. To be clear from the onset, unless your contract has been updated and these changes communicated to you formally, you are still bound by the contract existing before the structure changes were implemented. In this regard, then you are still required to work within assigned hours of work as has been in the past - this contract is protected within the Employment Act. It is fair to raise your concerns and remind your employer that your working hours have been extended without fair consultation. In addition, any extra hours  you put in should be compensated either by payment of overtime or time off in lieu. This is a standard practice in many organisations and is usually made to protect employees’ time and ensure alignment to the Employment Act. Working on Saturday depends on what is stated in your policies. You need to confirm what the weekly working hours of each employee are and check to be assured that these are not exceeded in your case. If the nature of work on Saturday requires a full day engagement, employers normally arrange for shifts to avoid overworking their employees. Work does not have to be torturous as you describe, and no employer is allowed to exceed the working hours limit without proper compensation. You need to raise this up with your supervisor and have it rectified. Better still, if you have an employee council or union, this is a serious matter, so they should be involved in resolving it.    I worked in a certain supermarket for two years and they terminated my employment without any notice.