Former Football Kenya Federation president Sam Nyamweya has been suspended from all football activities for 10 years. A letter addressed to Nyamweya and signed by FKF Chief Executive Officer Robert Muthomi indicated that the decision to suspend the former boss was reached following a National Executive Committee meeting last Tuesday. The federation said Nyamweya’s lengthy suspension was as a result of: “Pursuing a case against the current office in a court of law against the laid down rules, and for illegally accessing the federation’s coffers and withdrawing Sh2.5 million.” “Contrary to the statutes of Fifa, Caf and FKF, you have lodged a case against FKF in an ordinary court and therefore are in violation of Article 13 (f) of the FKF constitution. "In your own written admission you illegally withdrew a sum of Kshs2,500,000 which was in a federation account and which was destined for FKF Aberdares branch. The decision by the National Executive Committee will be presented to the General Meeting of FKF for adoption,” the letter read in part. In a quick rejoinder, Nyamweya dismissed the letter as “null and void”, before threatening to sue the federation for “contempt of court.” “Disregard that letter because it is null and void. How can you ban someone from football yet that particular person is not involved in football in the first place? I retired from football a long time ago. So what do they mean I am banned from football?” posed Nyamweya. “I never withdrew any money from the bank. I’ve said that before. I will now have to sue them for contempt of court. You don’t talk publicly about a case that is ongoing.” TOOK FKF TO COURT Early this year, FKF accused accused Nyamweya of stealing Sh2.5 million meant for the Aberdares branch. Two weeks later, the former federation boss went to court demanding that the club licensing process be suspended indefinitely, and that Muhoroni Youth and Sofapaka, who had then been relegated for failing to comply with club licensing rules, be reinstated to the top flight league.  