Auditor-General Edward Ouko overruled his junior and signed payment voucher for an irregular Sh100-million contract, EACC Deputy CEO Michael Mubea has told MPs. Mr Mubea on Thursday told the National Assembly’s Finance, Trade and Planning committee that Mr Ouko signed the contract for the procurement of an Audit Vault software. The committee chaired by Ainamoi MP Benjamin Langat is considering the petition for the removal of Mr Ouko. Director of Public Prosecutions Keriako Tobiko is expected before the team at 2.30pm in the same venue. NULLIFY Their appearances come barely 24 hours after Mr Ouko moved to court in an attempt to nullify the work of the committee by stopping the submission to the President of a recommendation that he is to be removed from office. He has already presented an elaborate response to the petition by advocate Emmanuel Mwagambo Mwagonah. Going by similar cases in the past, Parliament would also not be stopped from doing its job by a case in court. The DPP and the EACC have been at odds over whether Mr Ouko ought to be charged in connection with the reported purchase of software at an inflated price. COMPLAINTS EACC asked Mr Tobiko to charge Mr Ouko with abuse of office and failure to comply with procurement laws. But Mr Tobiko rejected the charges, effectively clearing Mr Ouko amid complaints to the press beforehand that he had been under considerable pressure from people he did not name to charge Mr Ouko. The petition has provoked a sharp and sometimes bitter response by MPs from the Opposition, some of whom have been attending meetings as “friends of the committee” and robustly defended Mr Ouko. The petition seeking Mr Ouko’s removal from office was presented last month by Mr Emmanuel Mwagonah, who accused Mr Ouko of wasting public funds by accumulating a Sh1 million phone bill on his iPad while he was abroad. He also accuses Mr Ouko of irregularly authorising the procurement of an Audit Vault software at Sh100 million instead of Sh18 million.   Auditor-General seeks court protection against his ouster.