Luo Council of Elders want the media barred from revisiting the murder of former minister Robert Ouko terming it “emotive” as the country approaches elections. At a special meeting held in Kisumu on Saturday, the elders called on the authorities, including Communications Authority of Kenya to intervene in the matter. Council Chairman Willis Opiyo Otondi said they are concerned that a section of the media was airing a programme on Dr Ouko’s murder. “We are concerned after the airing of Dr Ouko’s murder by a local television channel. We believe this is not the right time to carry out such a series as it is prone to evoking emotions ahead of the August 8 election,” Mr Otondi said. He pointed out that communities are enjoying cordial relationships and “such coverage could strain the affiliations.” He questioned why Dr Ouko’s murder was of great concern at the moment when several members of the community had been assassinated and culprits not brought to book. “Tom Mboya, Odhiambo Mbai and Argwings Kodhek are just but a few members of the Luo community who were assassinated and nobody is talking about them. We are asking, why dwell on Dr Ouko’s killing now?” he posed. Dr Ouko, the former Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation was murdered on February 13, 1990 and his body dumped at Got Alila in Muhoroni, Kisumu County. He served in the government of Kenya from the colonial period and also the Jomo Kenyatta and Daniel Moi regimes He was a member of the National Assembly for Kisumu and a Cabinet Minister, rising to the post of Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation by 1990. His murder case, perhaps the most intriguing in Kenyan history, remains unsolved. Mr Otondi challenged the National Cohesion and Integration Cohesion to remain vigilant to ensure peace prevails among communities in the country. “There is need for the authorities to remain vigilant to ensure utterances that are likely to evoke emotions are banned ahead of the polls,” he said.  