Are you a graduate who just can’t seem to find a job? A few months may have turned into years with no sign of an employment opportunity coming your way, and no clear explanation from companies you have applied to as to why they are not employing you. Here are a few reasons you should take into account when applying for work.  1. They can’t afford you You are probably overqualified for the position being offered by the organisation. At times it is not the level of education, it could also be the kind of work you may have done in various projects. That experience in itself may intimidate an employer into not hiring you, especially if they are a small company. This is not necessarily a bad thing, it means you are better off offering your services as a specialist consultant in this particular area to companies that can afford you. On the bright side, you tend to make more as a consultant than as an employee. 2. You’re sloppy Your CV is not well thought out, it is disorganised and the grammar is wanting. Unless you are requested to submit a handwritten CV, which is very rare these days, make sure your CV and cover letter are typed and printed. Also ensure that the letter is well-formatted. That means using the same font type and size. You can do that at any of the numerous cybercafés across the country. And make sure someone with better grammar than you proof reads the document. Remember, the recruitment process starts at the CV level. If a recruiter doesn’t like what they see or read, they won’t want to meet you. 3. You lack confidence Your body language at your interview says a lot about you. It is normal to be nervous, but your nerves should not completely paralyse you. The best way to prepare for an interview is to run a mock interview with a friend or mentor so that you can begin to psychologically prepare for it. Ensure you maintain eye contact, and most of all, be yourself. This is not just about getting the job; it is also a chance for an employer to determine if your personality fits with the kind of job you will do, as well as the company dynamics. 4. You have no references References exist for a key reason; to vouch for your competencies and strengths. We all have some form of work experience. You have volunteered, worked on college projects, organised a concert or a charity event. There is someone you have worked with who can recommend you; from a university professor, to a project manager at an organisation you volunteered at; if no one can vouch for you; that raises questions about your competencies. 5. Your income expectations are unrealistic This is something we have touched on several times in this column. You cannot ask for a six-figure salary with no form of qualification or job experience to support that. You need to be fully aware of what the industry rates are, your scope of work and your work experience. 6. You are unpleasantly  peculiar At times in your CV you may include your hobbies and interests, which is fine. Stating that you like sports and bungee jumping shows the employer that you are fun and a risk taker, but when you state drinking, talking or sleeping, that raises eyebrows.  Those do not inspire confidence in your character, and they are not real hobbies. If you do not have hobbies, do not state any. Do not list things you do in your free time that are not constructive. 7. You don’t research Whatever industry you are seeking to work in, it is essential to stay abreast with industry advancements. In the 21st century with technology shifting industries, you need to at least research on these advancements, and see how they are affecting your future employer’s business. Walking into an interview and being completely clueless about the kind of work your employer does is not only in poor taste, it is offensive. 8. You have a horrible attitude There is a difference between confidence and cockiness. Being flippant during an interview will not get you far. Even if the interviewer is out of line, you can be diplomatic in your approach to disagree with them. Remember interviews are not just about your credentials, they are also an evaluation of your character. 9. You are desperate Desperate people make the worst employees for a simple reason. You are only driven by money, not by personal and professional growth. We all do need to make money, but you also need to genuinely ask yourself what kind of career you would like to have. And what kind of experience you intend to get out of each job you apply for. If you cannot do that, no one will want to hire someone unclear of their personal goals. That lack of clarity leaves you at the mercy of money. 10.You are not the right fit At times it all boils down to this, you just do not fit the company. Your qualifications may be splendid, your character equally impressive, but there is just something that makes you the wrong fit. And this at times boils down to personal chemistry, maybe your future employer just feels that you do not fit the company’s DNA. This mostly revolves around team dynamics.  