One title that rapper King Kaka may have inadvertently earned himself, now in his 10th year in the music industry, is: “King of eulogy music”. Of the many songs he has released, at least five are either about a dead loved one, or they mention someone who has died. The latest is "Senzenina", a song he did with the Redfourth Chorus, which was released in January. It is about his nephew who died last year. Some psychologists say we now have enough material to study the thoughts tucked deep in Rabbit’s mind, and their “diagnosis” so far is interesting. James Mbugua, a psychology lecturer at Africa Nazarene University, told Buzz that the rapper — who turns 30 in May — might not have fully come to terms with the death of his father when he was six-years-old. When asked to respond to the observation that he tends to be in his element when eulogising people through music, Rabbit was defensive. “I wouldn’t want to be dubbed that [King of eulogies],” he told Buzz in a message. “Those songs have deeper meaning to my life, and I wouldn’t want to make an article about that as well. This is not music, this is my life.” However, he was recently asked a related question by NTV’s Larry Madowo on the February 3 edition of The Trend. Before sitting for the interview with Larry, he got so emotional while performing "Senzenina" live, alongside the Redfourth Chorus, that he did not rap past the second stanza. “That’s the only way I vent, musically. I’m that guy who’ll not come to narrate that story [of losing my nephew] to you,” he said when Larry enquired about the story behind Senzenina. “Mi ni msee siongeangi (I’m that guy who never speaks),” quipped Rabbit, founder of Kaka Empire artiste management stable, and who currently has four albums to his name. Besides "Senzenina", some of his works that have reference to dead people are "Dodoma" (2009, with Harry Kimani), "Baadaye" (2015, with Amos and Josh) and "Papa" (2016, with Elani). In his 2012 poem, "Swahili Shakespeare", he also pays tribute to a deceased girl, calling for a “moment of silence”. He displays her photo in the Swahili Shakespeare video. In "Dodoma", Rabbit gives an emotional account of Betty, a Tanzanian girl he loved without ever knowing she was a most wanted criminal in her country. He got to know about her wayward ways through newspaper articles after she was shot dead in Mikocheni, Dar es Salaam. “Betty, Betty/Mbona umeniacha? Akilini ninazo picha zako (Why have you left me, Betty? My mind is replete with your images),” he raps. In "Baadaye", Rabbit’s rap is about a loved one who passed away and left him longing for the day they would return. “Maombi ni ati wakati rudi nyuma/ Jioni nikirudi, nikupate kwa nyumba (My prayer is that time be rolled back so that when I return home in the evening, I can find you there),” he raps. Amos, part of the duo that did "Baadaye" with Rabbit, says that they chose to involve the rapper because they knew he would punctuate the emotive aspect of the song the way they wanted it done. “We called him in because he’s a good poet. He knows how to bring out emotion in a song. If you notice, he started as a spoken-word artiste; so he has a very good way with poetry and bringing out emotions. That’s what we wanted on this one,” Amos told Buzz on Thursday. “He was the one who was the closest, and we thought he was the best.” He added: “Because of his poetry, the way he writes, the way he delivers his lyrics has a way of convincing listeners. We figured out that he could be the best for that particular song. He actually delivered Baadaye.” After "Baadaye", Rabbit worked with Elani in Papa to produce a song that could perhaps be the most helpful in providing clues on how death of a loved one played out in his mind during his formative years. REGRETS In the song, he regrets having defied calls to visit his father in hospital in 1993. He says he was so mad at his father that he decided to wait for him to recover so he could apologise before they could be on talking terms again. “Ati nimwache apone kwanza, ndio apate nguvu ya ku apologise/ Hadi alitumana, I always blame myself for that/ Fursa tu; nikakataa kusema goodbye to dad/ Hiyo kitu huniuma hadi wa leo; wimbi zimepoteapotea (I said, let him recover first, so he can be strong enough to apologise/ He even sent someone to ask me to go, I always blame myself for that/ I got a chance, but refused to bid dad goodbye/ That pains me to date, and the storms have faded),” he sings. Rabbit was born Kevin Ombima in 1987 as the last born in a family of three boys. He is an alumnus of Eastleigh High School, Nairobi, where he was once the senior entertainment prefect. While announcing the release of "Papa" in April 2016, Rabbit said he held the song back for about four months. “I recorded the song last year, around October. I was afraid of releasing it coz I thought to myself that it was too private,” he wrote on a Facebook post, where he said he had recorded 780 songs since he joined the music industry in 2007. “This one particular song changed everything,” he added. “When I recorded the song, it was purely to get the peace that I needed between me and my late father, and to celebrate my two daughters.” The admission that he considers some matters too private could be a signal that Rabbit still bears unhealed wounds from his father’s death, according to Mbugua, the Africa Nazarene University lecturer. “Remember, the first death happened when he was quite young. Childhood influences are very, very important,” Mbugua said. In Mbugua’s view, there is a lot to decipher from Rabbit’s eulogy-type songs. “How we dress, how we express ourselves, what we sing about, what we write about... is oftentimes what is held in our deep subconscious. And some of us are very good in expressing ourselves through writing, through music; because otherwise we’re going to be very hurt,” he said. On Rabbit’s admission that he cannot discuss with people some of the matters he sings about, Mbugua said the fame element could be a contributing factor. “The issue could be what psychologists call ‘vulnerability disclosure’. We don’t want to appear vulnerable to the world. So we hide this vulnerability in success, in high achievement, but deep down this is somebody breaking down every other day,” said the psychology expert. Dr Fred Mbogo, a literature lecturer at Moi University who also directs plays and is a literary critic, said even works of art that gained prominence in past ages had something to do with death. “Gothic stuff usually go with death, even though not necessarily of friends. But Shakespeare loved death and the world of the supernatural: it makes for great reading, depth and emotional material,” Dr Mbogo said. “He [Rabbit] has an interesting past with grave issues, I think. Tupac Shakur, the US rapper, seemed to have crafted a path — rap and marginalisation, and rap and street war, and rap and death,” added the don. Other eulogy-type songs by Kenyan artistes include Waliotuacha by Nonini and Naomi, where they eulogise a number of local musicians who have died. Also, Prezzo released Mahangaiko in the early 2000s to eulogise his father. But going by the rate that Rabbit is releasing requiem songs, he may well be leading the pack in claiming the title “King of eulogies”. “He’s always been very lyrically insightful, deep and emotional,” tweeted Rabbit’s fan, Renee Akinyi, after his moving performance of Senzenina on The Trend. “King Kaka is a long-time mentor. Though emotional, he’s dope,” tweeted Vincent Mong’are. “Why is King Kaka singing only emotional songs these days? I was so drunk and that song just made me sober,” joked Javan Reed on Twitter. From the various comments, it appears the emotional King Kaka draws admiration from a cross-section of fans. Perhaps his followers should get their handkerchiefs ready as they await his next tribute.   