Kabras Sugar skipper Max Adaka is among three players who are back to full fitness ahead of their Kenya Cup top six play-off showdown against Resolution Impala on Saturday at Impala Sports Club.Adaka is fully fit after recovering from a niggling ankle injury and also played against Western Bulls in their last regular season duel on Saturday while Fijian back John Kubu and prop Joseph Odera are also set to feature for the champions.Adaka was given a few minutes on his return in their 30-14 victory that condemned Western Bulls to relegation at the Kakamega show grounds. We are happy that Adaka and the other two players are back to full strength, ready to take on the Sarries, said Kabras Sugar deputy coach Anthony Ogot, who predicted a tough battle. We really must plan well even though we have beaten them in the last two matches. The duel is a repeat of last year s Kenya Cup final where Kabras Sugar made history when they won 22-5, becoming the first side from Western Kenya to win the title. The two sides met two weeks ago in the penultimate round of Kenya Cup regular season in Kakamega where the sugar millers once again triumphed 29-26.SHAKY RUNBoth sides have blown hot and cold this term compared to last season with Resolution Impala finishing fourth and Kabras Sugar fifth in the regular season.Last season, the Sarries topped the log for the first time since 2009 while Kabras wound third.Resolution Impala would edge out KCB 8-7 while Kabras Sugar bundled out Kenya Harlequin 19-15 to set up the final clash last year. We can t judge Impala from last season or our victory over them two weeks ago, Ogot said. This is the knockout stage and anything can happen. Ogot said they have had a shaky season because of a serious of injuries to their key players. Everyone is training, explained Ogot.Resolution Impala Director of Coaching Fred Ollows will also have captain Duncan Ekasi, Fly-half Nato Simiyu and prop Dennis Ekasi available, having missed the clash in Kakamega two weeks ago. They missed the match owing to work commitments but they are back, said Ollows. We are coming for a great party the mood in training and the players mental strength is great. The other top six play-off clash will see Kenya Harlequin take on Mwamba at the adjacent RFUEA grounds. The winner between Resolution Impala and Kabras Sugar will meet Homeboyz, who topped the league, in the semi-final.The winner between Quins and Mwamba take on Kenya Commercial Bank in the other last four encounter. email print email print Any other European club would have been more ideal than China. Joyciline Jepkosgei launched her international running career only a year ago.