Nairobi County Secondary Schools Girls basketball champions Parklands Arya on Saturday beat Ngara Girls 61-15 in the final of the Nairobi West Sub-Region Term One Games at State House Girls. Starehe Boys Centre won the boys' final after they edged out Hospital Hill 27-21 in a tightly contested final. The results gave Arya and Starehe the sub-region titles as well as qualification to the Nairobi Regional Games alongside the runners-up and third placed teams as the two-day competition came to a close. Arya coach Godfrey Mwaloma was delighted with the performance but believes his team will need to be at their best at the regional games. "We were able to give a good account of ourselves and the girls can take delight after winning another title. We were effecient and never allowed them time to play," Mwaloma told Sunday Nation Sport on Saturday. "The real battle is at the regional games where we will come up against formidable oppponents and we therefore need to get ready for that," the tactician added. Enroute to the final, Arya saw off Pangani Girls 45-13 while Ngara ran out 23-18 winners against St George's. In the final, Arya got off to a quick start with fowards Mercy Mumo and Dorsilla Anyango tormenting the Ngara defence with their impressive link up play. The duo helped their team take 14-4 lead at the end of the first quarter before they improved to 18-5 at the end of the second quarter to lead 32-9 at halftime. Ngara struggled to impose themselves in the match and were outplayed in the last quarters as Arya scored 18-2 and 11-4 to complete the emphatic result. The impressive Anyango was Arya's highest scorer with 14 points, with Lynnet Naipei and Priscillah Odima sinking 10 points each. Divinah Bosire and Lilian Miricho scored four points for Ngara. In the boys affair, Starehe came from behind to edge out Hospital Hill who led in three quarters before crumbling in the last quarter as Starehe claimed the gong. In the semis, Starehe beat Strathmore 26-18 as Hospital Hill saw off Jamhuri 33-24. St George's piped Pangani 9-8 in the girls' play-off while Strathmore won the boys' affair 18-8 against Jamhuri. Nairobi East and Northern regions will compete their games on Sunday at different venues.  