Kizingo, a Swahili comedy was named Kenya’s best picture at the fourth annual Riverwood Academy Awards. There were surprise winners and upsets at the glamorous award ceremony that was held in Nairobi at the Kenya Cultural Centre, previously known as the Kenya National Theatre on Saturday night that saw Mama Duka TV series and Seed, a short film, emerge the big winners of the night when they each won three awards. Auntie Boss, a show that airs on NTV was the award favourite as it had received a total of nine nominations but left with one award that Best supporting actress won by Sandra Dacha.   Top individual awards produced the biggest surprises with break out stars beating veterans to the top prize. Dressed In traditional kikuyu dress complete with beads and heavy earrings, Keziah Mugure took the honour of Best Actress for her role in drama Kigogoro (Drunkard). While Jon Oron was named Best actress for Luo comedy Otoyo Mang’ang’a  (Fantastic Hyena) Accepting her award, Ms Mugure thanked the producers of the TV show who she said had plucked her from oblivion and believed in her to deliver an award-winning performance. On his part, Mr Oron, said the award was the best thing that had happened to his life. Anubhav Garg won the best actor in a film award for his depiction of a disabled person in Beyond. Veteran Hellen Waithera won the best actress in Uriru wa Wendo (Wonders of Love).   The Riverwood awards are a brainchild of Riverwood Ensemble Filmmakers Association (Riverwood) which brings together producers from all over Kenya. Riverwood this year aims to produce world-class content as it feted TV and film actors, producers, directors and other players across various categories in an industry that has now come of age. The winners in the various categories showed the changing face of the Riverwood that now showcases Kenya's diversity in productions of different languages tackling a range of topics that are an accurate reflection of the Kenyan experience. Women too are making a mark in the industry in making the magic happen. Betty Kathungu - Furet took top honours as the producer of Kizingo, a Kiswahili comedy-drama that starred child actors and incorporated the best of Mombasa and Nairobi with its take of best laid plans gone awry when two bumbling thugs encounter two smart kids who proceed to outwit them and lead them on a wild chase.   Ms Furet’s, Kizingo win is a crowning moment for her production house Furet Films who ensured the film toured all the counties in a marketing blitz that lasted months in a bid to make local content accessible to Kenyans. Njoki Muhoho also took the top TV honour for Mama Duka which was among the evening’s big winners as it bagged Best TV show, best script and best directing in a TV series. Ms Muhoho expressed her joy at being recognized at home. “An award won at home means more than one won elsewhere and I wish to thank the young cast and crew of Mama Duka who have stuck with me through it all,"she said. The biggest shock of the evening was however delivered by Violine Ogutu who won the best director for the short film Seed, when she stepped up to take her award but later rejected it and returned back to her seat. The snafu caused Lucy Ngunjiri, the Kenyan icon who plays no-nonsense magistrate in Vioja Mahakamani an uncertain moment reminiscent of the Oscars “envelope gate”. It was confirmed that indeed the award was rightfully Ms Ogutu’s who in her acceptance speech dedicated the award to her mother and said she did not believe that she had won in the competitive category besting Riverwood heavy weights.   Raymond Ofula, delivered the feels for the evening when he was awarded the Lifetime Achievement and installed as Film Warrior for his impressive and consistent body of work over the years. In accepting the award, he emotionally dedicated the award to his late wife. “I thank God for giving me the talent and I dedicate this award to my beloved wife Anne Ofula. I wish she was here to see what her love and dedication have brought to me all the years when I was starting out as a thespian,” he tearfully said.  ****** WINNERS IN MAJOR CATEGORIES Best feature film  - Kizingo Best short film - Seed Best EA film - Invisible cuffs Best documentary - Structures of Hope Best vernacular Film -  Cama wa Ruo (Taste of Pain) Best vernacular TV series - Hayiayia Best TV series - Mama Duka FILM Best film director - Violine Ogutu Best actor Anubhav Garg – Beyond Best supporting actor Peter Mweu – Cama wa Ruo Best actress Keziah mugure - Kigorogoro Best supporting actress Sally Atieno – Zilizala TV series Best actor - John Oron in Otoyo Mang’ang’a Best supporting actor - Elly Young – Tumaini Senta Best lead actress -  Hellen Waithera – Uriru wa Wendo Best supporting actress -  Sandra Dacha – Auntie Boss Best Script -  Loi Awat - Mama Duka Best directing - Michael jones Mwangi – Mama Duka, Best  director vernacular TV series (Jury’s verdict) - James  Njamura - Uriru Wa Wendo Lifetime achievement – Raymond Ofula  