Lucky Mwamba snatched the last Kenya Cup top six play-offs berth despite losing to Kenya Commercial Bank (KCB) 18-25 at Ruaraka on Satuday. Mwamba just nicked Nakuru to the last place because of a better points difference. Kulabu’s points difference was plus 115 compared to Nakuru’s plus 63. Both teams ended up with 47 points on the day. Mwamba, with fate not on their hands, secured a vital bonus point for not losing by more than seven points to KCB. On the other hand, Nakuru were left ruing their missed chances after relegated Mean Machine restricted them to a 22-12 no bonus victory. The Great Rift side needed to win the match with a bonus point so as to lock out Mwamba to the last place in the play-off. Homeboyz finished top of the table on 67 points despite drawing with Nondescripts 28-28 at Jamhuri Park, while KCB finished second with 66 points to claim their two automatic semi-final spots. The next four teams, Kenya Harlequin, Resolution Impala, champions Kabras Sugar and Mwamba will battle in the play-offs due on Saturday for a place in the last four. DISMANTED Quins, who dismantled Strathmore Leos 72-5 at the RFUEA grounds to finish third with 65 points, will meet Mwamba in the play-offs at the RFUEA grounds. Kabras Sugar, who condemned Western Bulls to relegation 30-16 in Kakamega, will host Resolution Impala in the other play-off duel. At KCB, international Peter Kaaria touched down a brace of tries for the home side, Nelson Nyandat landed once. KCB were also awarded a penalty try. Humphrey Kayange and Greg Odhiambo scored a try each for Mwamba with George Mutuku slotting over two penalties and a conversion. The Nakuru, Mean Machine match was an explosive affair. The home side, popularly known as Wanyore, kicked off the match on a high note, when they took the game into the Mean Machine territory scoring their opening try via John “The Bull” Mbugua. Henry Ayah, who had a brilliant day in the office and was at the centre of all the Nakuru attacks made a superb conversion. Ivin Kahungi reduced the arrears for the university lads when he scored a try which was however, not converted. Western Bulls joined Mean Machine in the relegation basket after they lost to Kabras Sugar 16-30. RESULTS Quins 72-5 Strathmore Leos; Kabras Sugar 30-16 Western Bulls; Nakuru 21-12  Mean Machine; Impala 57-18 Blak Blad; Homeboyz 28-28 Nondescripts; KCB 25-18 Mwamba  