For decades, women have been excluded from occupying political positions not only because of the dominance of patriarchal attitudes but also due to the nature of institutions charged with the responsibility of ensuring effective representation. The continued discrimination of women from political offices violates the principles of equality of rights and respect for human dignity. It is an obstacle to the participation of women, on equal terms with men, in the political life of the nation. It curtails women’s potential to serve. The principles of equity, equality and non-discrimination are national values enshrined in the Constitution and a thread that runs throughout the Constitution as well as the electoral laws. Luckily, the Kenyan election system now incorporates proportional representation by nomination through the use of party lists. Further, political parties have a constitutional obligation to uphold the national values specified in the Constitution including the values of equity, non-discrimination and equality of women and men. They are also required to put in place party policies and practices that breathe life into the provision that women and men have the right to equal treatment, including the right to equal opportunities within the political parties. WE KNOW Over the last 50 years, political parties have not done much to promote women leadership. Yet we know that women bring into leadership new values, perspectives and approaches to political behaviour and practice. Moreover, we have a responsibility of encouraging intergenerational linkages, learning, mentoring and modelling. By supporting women in leadership, we build platforms for girls to aspire for political office. We should imagine a time when Kenya has a woman president, as is happening in many other countries. There are things that political parties can do right away. First, they will need to rework their documents to ensure gender sensitivity in language use and entrench inclusive representation in the party organs. Second, political parties ought to give qualified men and women equal opportunities to belong to decision-making bodies in the party’s structures from the ward to constituency, county and national levels. But knowing how patriarchal our political culture is, this might be hard to put in practice unless affirmative action measures are undertaken. In the interim, the use of a quota system ought to be considered. STRENGTHEN LEAGUES The third action that political parties can take is to strengthen special leagues for women as important organs of the party capable of contributing to women’s political advancement. By anchoring women’s leagues in the political parties, and treating them with the requisite respect and dignity, it is possible to provide opportunities for women to actively organise, horn their political skills, and develop networks. Through strong and issue driven women’s leagues, Kenya can start crafting a path for a non-discriminative political culture. Additionally, participation in elective and nominative politics requires immense financial resources. However, many women leaders lack the networks for resourcing their political work. It is, therefore, important that political parties increase financial support and build the capacity of women. This fourth action will ensure that the women’s leagues are vibrant and able to play their role of mobilising and promoting inclusive politics. The fifth action, relates to nominations. We know that quite often nominations in certain parts of our country determine the election outcome. Therefore, it is imperative that political parties support women aspirants at this critical time, especially in their strongholds. Few women make it through the nomination stage due to various factors including unclear processes and malpractices that include corruption, bribery, rigging and blatant preference for male candidates. These practices are unacceptable and undermine the pursuit of democracy and justice. But they can be reversed through open and transparent party nominations. UNDERMINE VALUES When nomination practices are chaotic and unaccountable, they undermine the values and principles of multiparty democracy, weaken parties and sow the seeds of dictatorship. Political parties can uphold the legal framework for political party nominations as anchored in Articles 82 and 90 of the Constitution. To ensure credible, free and fair nominations, political parties should have internal democratic structures and develop fair and transparent nomination rules and regulations. At all levels the principle of “not more than two-thirds of the nominated candidates shall be of the same gender” should be adopted. But political party members should also play their role by demanding accountability from their leaders. They should not participate in violent activities or demean women leaders. On voting day, they should facilitate younger women to cast the ballot and desist from any acts of intimidation. We can unlock the two-thirds gender principle if, together, we put our political parties to task and audit their treatment of women in leadership. There is something absolutely wrong when the image of leadership in Kenya is overwhelmingly male. We can reverse that picture in the August general election.  Prof Kimani Njogu is director, Twaweza Communications. kimani.njogu@gmail.com  