Kajiado County Assembly Speaker Johnson Osoi had to adjourn a session for reading the Budget on Thursday after Finance and Economic Planning Minister Keswe Mapena failed to appear. At some point, the Speaker told Members of County Assembly (MCAs) that the County Executive Committee Member (CECM) required more time. “Hon. Members I request that we skip the first paper that should be presented by the CECM Finance and Economic Planning, Hon. Keswe Mapena. He is in my office and has just asked for few minutes since his team is working on the final draft for presentation. I therefore use my discretion to allow them,” Speaker Osoi said. By 5pm, the Finance and Planning minister had not showed up and some MCAs started claiming that his failure to appear was a deliberate effort by the Executive to delay the reading of the speech in order to deny them time to scrutinise it. “Last year you remember Mr Speaker we allowed the Minister to bring the Budget at around 6pm and we had to remain here for hours till late in the night. It can’t escape my mind that since we had no time to scrutinize the Budget allocations for Ongata Rongai, which were badly tampered with,” Ongata Rongai MCA Mwathe Pere said. Nominated MCA Charles Lekanet said that the Executive fails to read the Budget on time and only to turn around and blame the Assembly despite not involving them when allocations are done. “We are prepared to prove to residents of Kajiado that the first Assembly has been able to do its work and therefore we must go through the Budget before it is read on the floor of the house,” he said. The Speaker defended the decision of his office to register a complaint to the Executive for frequent delays in presenting Budget estimates. “Members on Monday I wrote to the executive to urge them to avoid bringing the Budget on the last day,” Speaker Osoi said. Mr Osoi had to adjourn the House to Tuesday when the Mr Mapena is expected to present the speech.   Gem MP also says CS Henry Rotich missed the point.