The Sports Disputes Tribunal will on Wednesday issue a ruling on a petition filed by Sofapaka and Muhoroni asking to be reinstated back to the SportPesa Premier League. SDT chairman John Ohaga told Nation Sport on Monday that deliberations are ongoing based on submissions made by Sofapaka, and that the matter will be brought to a close on Wednesday. Muhoroni are yet to make any submissions, but Ohaga explained that being a joint petition, it was unnecessary for them to make a separate submission since whatever decision is made will automatically apply to both parties. “The cases involving the two are similar in that both of them were relegated for the same reasons. The matter is therefore being treated as a joint plea and not an individual one. “We acknowledge that there is a sense of urgency at this point, and we intend to close the case on Wednesday without fail,” he said. But even as the SDT’s decision remains unknown, Muhoroni and Sofapaka have both vowed to fight for premiership status by all means, and their officials have declared publicly that they will seek recourse on other judicial bodies such as Fifa should the SDT rule against them. Sofapaka even threatened to delay the SportPesa Premier League kick off last weekend by obtaining a court order on Friday evening, but the league organisers repudiated and allowed the six league games to go on as scheduled. It has since emerged that although valid, Sofapaka had made a critical error in misspelling the name of the defendant (Kenyan Premier League Limited) which rendered the order null and void. The two clubs were demoted to the National Super League early this year for failing to meet the minimum threshold for Caf Club Licensing regulations, and Football Kenya Federation quickly announced that they would be replaced by lower tier sides Vihiga United and KCB. FKF explained that KCB and Vihiga United (who finished in fifth and sixth position on the NSL last season) were the two teams eligible to replace the relegated clubs since they had already complied with the club licensing regulations, but Muhoroni and Sofapaka filed a petition at the SDT protesting this move.  