Patrick Kanyutu Maringa, is a familiar face on TV but you won’t catch anyone calling him that. These days, Patrick, 30, goes by the moniker DJ Blessing perhaps reminder of journey and how far he has come. From his beginnings in the sleepy town of Maragua in Murang’a County where he grew up before his family moved to Nairobi where they made a home in Githurai Estate to the hottest show in town. Growing up, he affirms his love of music and was fascinated by the DJs he saw on TV, always dreaming that one day it would be his turn. He has now arrived and is the resident DJ on the popular #theTrend where he thrills viewers with his distinctive style. He tells www.nation.co.ke about his love affair with music and setting his sights on big things. 1.  How did you start Deejaying? I love music, since my early days as a kid I used to match my elder brothers and sister dance and sing along to big tunes, they inspired me a lot. When I was in high school I used to watch DJ John of Homeboyz doing his mixing and tricks. His show was called H20, it used to air every Friday, I never missed it. I also used to follow Homeboyz everywhere, and these guys inspired me  lot. I was I awe of what they could do and that inspired me to become a DJ. 2. What is your style My style is different and unique, I do live remixes and mashups, that’s why they call me the mashup king. At the turntables, I like scratching and beat juggling which goes well with hip hop music. But I’m really an all rounded DJ. I mix good music, music that people relate and connect with, I call them hits, from dancehall, hiphop, house, Kenyan, African everything really. 3. Did you go to school to study that? I attended Nginda Primary School, in Maragua County, then later I Joined Githumu High school, then I joined Institute Of Advanced Technology ( IAT ) for Diploma in IT and Business Management. So to answer your question, no. I am self-taught. 3. What have been the highlights of your career? I have worked with different people in this music industry,  Kenyan artists, event organizers and media houses but m current gig is my best yet. At the #theTrend, it is really doing it  for me, I love the show, the host, my team of colleagues and the fans especially. I have stepped up to the next level, in my career all thanks to NTV who have believed in me and given me the opportunity to showcase my skills. The response has so far been very good, I get calls and texts every Friday from my  friends, fans who always support me and tune in to watch the show. Some to tell me they like my style others want to learn how to DJ and get admitted to my DJ academy - Vibes DJ academy. I have also made new friends and contacts. My social media pages are on fie too, I’m having a blast.   4. What defining moment (s) in your life have shaped you as a person or as a DJ? My defining moments is when I decided to quit my job in IT to concentrate on music. I used to work in a tour firm Accord African Safaris Ltd as the IT Manager. This decision really affected me. At first my family was against my career as a DJ, they refused to pay my fees for the DJ academy, I had to go my own way and train myself. I first began by trying to run a Cyber café, it didn’t work, I then opened my own I.T firm, Click technologies which helped me recover and soften the blow from leaving steady employment. It was here I started designing websites for companies and hosting their domains while I saved the money for almost two years and finally I was able to buy my own DJ set which  at the time cost me around Sh300,000. The problem then became how to get a good laptop. I continued working and within an year or so I was able to buy my first mac book pro. Now with all my equipment  ready, I landed a job at Pisces 3D club as the official guest party DJ, where I played every Thursday, Friday and Saturday. I worked there for almost two years then I quit. After leaving Pisces 3d club, I  started my own events company, Vibe Sounds Entertainment 5. And the rest is history…?. I am currently working on NTV, theTrend, which airs every Friday from 8pm, also there is a new radio show am working on, which will air soon in one of the local radio station. Meanwhile am  also working on expanding my DJ unit and the academy which I launched in 2013.  Today it is well known and established and we are nurturing great and awesome talents. We have a Nairobi unit and this January, I have opened a Mombasa branch. As we speak, I am looking forward to opening a new branch in Nakuru and Kisumu before the end of the year and I hope to sign new and upcoming artists in my newly launched Music studio, Vibe Records! Social media especially Facebook has been a boon and has  given me more business than I expected. Nowadays most people are online, so I normally post the event or gig then I boost it through Facebook boost options like paid likes and shares, that way I get a lot of feedback which turns up to be business. 6. How have you been able to grow your career over the years and what challenges did you face? I have been able to grow in this business through networking and marketing myself online through blogs and social media. The most challenging thing is buying this DJ equipment like decks and sound, But through prayers all things are possible. 7. what advice would you give to someone interested in a Deejaying career? They should focused, hardworking and be ready to invest cause deejaying is business. Anyone interested in deejaying should contact me, At Vibes DJ Academy our main role is to train and mentor young people who are interested in deejaying as a career, and introduce them to the music business. I have trained several DJs since we opened Vibes DJ academy, just to mention a few, DJ Ruffnec, DJ Nesh,  DJ Feischer, DJ Spin, DJ Tryce among others.   8. What makes a good DJ? One who is focused and dedicated to this career, humble and business minded. My motto states ; “ the skills of a professional dj are always on demand”  one need to be very professional in this field, in terms of skills, branding and promoting himself or herself. Most upcoming djs are missing the point; they concentrate on scratching instead of playing good music and entertaining the crowd. As VIBES DEEJAYS we keep “the krowd moving “. I always define a dj as someone who mixes recorded  music in real time ! that being said a good dj should entertain and keep his / her fans glued to the speakers and dancing without skipping a beat ! 9. What is happening in your personal life? Are your relationships working together with the DJ career? I am married to Eunice Ruguru, my wife for four years now and we have a wonderful son called Evangelos Maringa. My wife is every supportive, she encourages me every day, She is always praying for me, our business, marriage  and our family. My brothers and sisters are very supportive, though at first they were against it. My Mum and Dad are very okey with me as a dj, I can say my family celebrates me; I have proved to them that this is a career which is well paying and professional like any other, I have made them proud! 10. Would you want your kids to follow in your path? Am looking forward to seeing my son Evangelos become the youngest DJ in Africa, I want him to start deejaying at the age of five or so.  in fact, I named him Evangelos after my main idol DJ Angelo from UK ! 11. How long will you carry on with deejaying? I plan to deejay till I’m in my 50s like DJ Jazzy Jeff from USA, but what I most want to do is to empower and mentor the young upcoming DJs. 12. Why did you choose the name DJ Blessing ? I believe in transforming people’s lives through music and mentorship, many tell me am a blessing to them and their families, am also very spiritual, when I got baptized I heard a voice tell me you are now a blessing to many, there and then I choose my name DJ Blessing! Since then I thank God for transforming my life and giving me a new name.  