Mombasa Governor Ali Hassan Joho on Thursday said he had no apologies to make for questioning President Uhuru Kenyatta’s leadership and asked him to make good his threat to punish him. Mr Joho said he will attend meetings concerning locals at the Coast “whether President Kenyatta liked it or not”. He spoke in Voi in Taita Taveta at the start of a series of rallies by ODM leaders at the Coast to counter the effects of the recent visit to the region by the President and his Jubilee team. The ODM rallies will be held in the six Coast counties, perceived to be the party’s stronghold. “President Kenyatta will not get any votes at the coast,” declared Mr Joho. He added: “They have announced that any Kenyan who wants to be President should wait until 2032. However, I will be in race in 2022.” On Monday, President Kenyatta told Mr Joho to stop following him to his meetings. He vowed to teach the flamboyant governor a lesson but did not elaborate. Mr Joho, Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi and Taita Taveta’s John Mruttu said ODM was the biggest partner in the National Super Alliance and it’s leader Raila Odinga should be the presidential candidate. They led the crowd in passing a vote of confidence in Mr Odinga to be Nasa’s torchbearer. The group included MPs Rashid Bedzimba and ODM chief whip Thomas Mwadeghu. In Wundanyi, Mr Joho, Mr Kingi, Mr Mruttu and Senator Stewart Madzayo said Mr Odinga was the best suited to face Jubilee in polls.Mr Joho said President Kenyatta should distribute land owned by his family at the Coast. Mr Kingi, a bitter critic of the Jubilee administration, said it was locals’ right to get development regardless of their party affiliation. He said despite local Woman Rep Joyce Lay Naomi Shaban and Kwale governor Salim Mvurya being lured to join Jubilee their areas had not benefited. Mr Mruttu accused Tanzanian authorities of harassing Kenyan traders and said Nasa leadership would address the issues. The Taita Taveta governor said Senator Dan Mwazo who moved to Jubilee should be rejected by voters. Senator Stewart Madzayo said only ODM could transform the country. Mr Mwadeghu, too, declared that Taita Taveta was an ODM stronghold.   The tour comes hot in the heels of another one by the Jubilee Party brigade.