Nairobi County Government will have some designated traffic lanes for the World Under-18 Championships planned for July 12-16 at the Moi International Sports Centre, Kasarani. Nairobi County Governor Evans Kidero said that the lanes will help ease the movement by the over 6,000 athletes, officials and fans coming for the youth competition. Kidero said the move is part of major infrastructure changes that will happen geared towards making the championships one of the most successful in the world of athletics. Kidero was speaking after he led his top county government officials, who included his deputy Jonathan Mueke for an extensive tour of the facilities that will host the youth championships. The tour that took an was led by the World Under-18 Chief Executive Officer Mwangi Muthee and started at the Moi International Sports Centre, the main competition arena. The tour moved to Kenyatta University where the Athletes Village will be situated. They took time to inspect the ongoing construction and refurbishment of the hostels, kitchen and training track. Kidero said a joint stakeholders meeting will be held on Thursday to assess requirements and needs at all venues and places where the event will be hosted. Kidero said the meeting will be crucial to lay out good planning as well as avoid any duplication of work. The meeting will be attended by top officials from Kenya Urban Roads Authority (KURA), Kenya Highway Authority (KenHa), Kenyatta University, Ministry of Energy and Sports, Culture and the Arts and Kenya Power and Lighting Company. “Already, I have talked to Kenha and we shall have designated lanes for the championships starting from the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport to Kasarani and Kenyatta University,” said Kidero. He disclosed that several local artists will also be involved to promote the event before and after with musical performances. “I am satisfied with the level of preparedness and I commend the LOC  for the good work they are doing,” said Kidero adding that the idea to have a village was wise since security will be a priority with the athletes and officials residing at one place. “This will definitely be a platform to showcase Kenya’s capacity to host big events and the success of the championships will unlock, not only Nairobi City’s potential, but also the country,” said Kidero. Muthee thanked Nairobi County Government for heeding their call for dedicated traffic lanes which will be used by visiting delegations to ensure smooth movement from the airport to the competition facilities.  