Mombasa Governor Ali Hassan Joho on Wednesday reported to the police that six armed men were seen at his vacant house in Nyali. He went to the Coast regional police headquarters where he met police boss Philip Tuimur and Mombasa County police boss Patterson Maelo. The house had been pulled down for reconstruction. Addressing journalists after meeting the police chiefs, Mr Joho said the incident was reported to him by a neighbor, who saw the armed men and raised alarm. RIFLES "They were however unshaken and stayed in the house for an hour," said the governor, who was accompanied by MPs Rashid Bedzimba and Badi Twalib. He said the men warned his neighbour to keep off "if he wanted to be alive." He said he used to live at the house moved out for its reconstruction. "We are here to report to police after six men armed with AK47 rifles came to my house yesterday (Tuesday) night. The house is undergoing rehabilitation. SECURITY "The neighbour’s dogs barked continuously making him to send a watchman to check what was happening. The men were confident and the neighbour thought they could be policemen,” the governor said adding that they were in civilian clothes. "I suspect if they were not after me they went to the construction site because they wanted to plant some illegal guns and later link them to me," he claimed. He said he was however not shaken by the action, would not demand for more security "because it is God who gives life and takes." He denied claims by his critics that he is full of drama to win sympathy and support. COMPLAINT The ODM deputy leader said police promised to act on the complaint. "You never know what those (people) could be planning to do after saying wataninyorosha (they will discipline me)," he said. But Mr Tuimur later told the Nation that Mr Joho should make an official complaint to police. He questioned why Mr Joho raised the issue hours after it allegedly happened. The governor however said he raised the issue with the police after the neighbour informed him at 1.30 pm. The vocal governor has been at loggerheads with President Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto over and was on Monday barred from attending the launch of Mtongwe Channel. The governor later left for Taifa Taveta county where he will lead ODM leaders in campaigning for the party in a bid to counter the recent visit by President Kenyatta and Mr Ruto.   Governor accused of using diversionary tactics to hide his shortcomings.