Robust debates on the upcoming general elections and corruption challenges in counties are expected today as the curtain falls on the fourth annual devolution conference. Delegates have a packed programme which also includes discussions on the health system at the county level. Speakers lined up for today's plenary sessions include Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) Chairman Wafula Chebukati,  Archbishop Eliud Wabukala of the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) and Dr Josephine Kibaru of the National  Council for Population and Development. LAST DAY Panellists expected include Health Cabinet Secretary Dr Cleopas Mailu, Registrar of Political Parties Lucy Ndung'u, Interior and Coordination of National Government Cabinet Secretary Joseph Nkaissery and Deputy Chief Justice Philomena Mwilu. Others are Attorney General Prof Githu Muigai, Director of Public Prosecutions Keriako Tobiko, Controller of Budget Ms Agnes Odhiambo. Deputy President William Ruto is expected to preside over the closing ceremony of the event taking place at the Kenya Wildlife Training Institute in Naivasha. Former Prime Minister and Cord co-principal Raila Odinga and Mr Siddarth Chatterjee, the United Nations Resident Coordinator and UNDP resident representative are also expected to address the conference at the closing ceremony today evening, according to the official ceremony program. UPCOMING ELECTIONS Mr Chebukati will kick off debate to interrogate the roles and responsibilities of constitutional commissions, the judiciary, political parties and elected leaders in ensuring fairness, accountability, transparency and peace in the upcoming elections. Panellists for the session will include Senate Minority Leader Moses Wetang'ula, former Attorney General Senator Amos Wako, Bomet and Turkana governors Isaac Ruto and Josephat Nanok. Archbishop Wabukala is the key speaker on the corruption drawback in counties and panellists will include Kenya Law Reform Commission chairman Mr Mbage Ng'ang'a, Governor Wycliffe Oparanya and Senator Anyang Nyong'o. ACTION PLAN To kick off the day, however, is a session on prioritization and resourcing of county public healthcare systems, with the Health Cabinet Secretary expected to be among the panellists. Knut Secretary General Wilson Sosion is also expected to be among the panellists. Governors will issue a joint communique and action plan at the end of today's plenary sessions. The theme of the conference that started on Tuesday is "Devolution – Transforming lives. Tell your story."   Most counties are making progress in solid waste reduction. #ElectionsKE