Four-time Kenyan champions Ulinzi Stars left the country Tuesday for Egypt for the first leg of their Caf Confederation Cup first round match against Smouha. Ulinzi will be fancying their chances of going into the next round after eliminating Libyan side Al Hilal Benghazi in the initial round of preliminaries last month. Friday’s game will be staged at the Borg el Arab Stadium in Alexandria, with the return leg two weeks later in Nairobi. Ulinzi left without striker John Mark Makwatta, who has been the club’s top scorer for the past two years, and forward Kevin Amwayi. Makwatta, last season's league Golden Boot winner, has been released to pursue a professional stint with Slovakian club FC Nitra, while Amwayi has been redeployed to the military. Coach Benjamin Nyangweso on Tuesday said they will look for suitable replacements for the duo within the squad ahead of Friday’s encounter and for this season’s Premier League assault. “The outcome of Friday’s game is unpredictable. I cannot say that we shall win, but it is my hope that we shall come back from Egypt with a favourable result,” said Nyangweso. “We are done with the preparations, what remains for us is to give our best during the game.” “Makwatta is already gone and we wish him the best. His absence will definitely be felt but now the other players have a chance to prove their capabilities as well,” he said. Makwatta’s departure leaves the burden of getting the goals on Gor Mahia loanee Baron Oketch, Samuel Onyango, Enosh Ochieng and Oscar Wamalwa. Ulinzi Stars qualified for this first round of preliminaries on February 18 after eliminating Libyan side Al Hilal Benghazi 5-4 on post-match penalties. The soldiers had lost 1-0 in the away match played in Cairo but returned the favour with a 1-0 win at home two weeks later to take the match into penalties. Ulinzi will have to be at their best if they are to eliminate the Egyptians in the two-legged tie. Smouha are regular participants in continental competitions, with their best outing being a Caf Champions League group stage appearance in two seasons ago. Sudanese referees Mahmood Ali Mahmood, Haitham Ahmed and Mohamed Ahmed will preside over the match. SQUAD Goalkeepers: James Saruni, Jacktone Odhiambo Defenders: Brian Birgen, Omar Mbongi, Geoffrey Kokoyo, Mohammed Hassan, Ben Sande and Cylus Shitote Midfielders: Boniface Onyango, Samuel Onyango, John Kago, Daniel Waweru, Stephen Ochollah, Churchill Muloma and Justine Onwong’a Strikers: Oscar Wamalwa, Baron Oketch and Enosh Ochieng   Football's power brokers know that Samoura came from the UN machinery.