Donald Trump may be irritated with journalists right now. But is there a politician who loves reporters unless they are propagating his or her agenda? Trump may think that much of what American scribes write about his delusions is fake or useless, but there are millions of audiences all over the world who think that his words are less truthful or helpful than the media reports.Alternative facts aside, probably Trump and other politicians and journalists are just two different sides of the same coin. They both seek to ensnare listeners and followers. It is just that the hoped-for end by either may be different.Trump isn t going to call a press conference and open all the closets in his office and house to reveal his secrets and ignorance. No. Only a politician with probably a more hideous agenda than his would do that. But one hopes that one day an African president will write an outrageous memoir to let us in on what goes on in the minds and lives of the big men and women of Africa, much in the vein of Paul B. Vitta s Confessions of President Kikumba (Oxford, 2016).This political satire is the story of Kikule Kikumba, president of an important African country. In the foreword to this memoir, Kikumba writes, In this book, I will do what other African presidents would deem insane. I will disclose everything about myself, good or bad. No African president has dared do that before. One would ask: why would an African president want to bare his life to the public? Trust Kikumba. He has an answer, which he delivers in a very self-righteous tone to his supposed enemies: Journalists and political opponents.Kikumba invites his audience thus: Come, then, you my sworn enemies in the news media, you who jump at every opportunity to denounce me, you who have never run for public office, yet talk and write as if you have trounced me in every election. Come gather around me. Hear me confess all. Then, when you have heard, scurry back to your cubbyholes and churn out those idiotic editorials of yours. SELLING IDEASMany journalists and editors hear such words from different politicians and their advisors all the time. Not many politicians, though, would confess their misdeeds publicly. Just read many of the auto/biographies by Kenyan politicians and you ll understand why Kikumba s confession is indeed a strange act.However, Kikumba s isn t a straightforward tale as the title suggests. This is a complex narrative. Yes, there is the excuse he makes of the fight with the press. But one senses that underneath the tale is a desire to show off. This is a man with a seeming burning need to prove that he rose from grass to grace . Kikumba was born of a village girl who had been impregnated by a sweet-tongued married man Kikumba calls him Sly-Tongue. His mother then got married to an abusive husband and died whilst giving birth.But Kikumba was a bright child who managed to travel to America for university studies. After graduating with a degree in Political Science he returned to his country and got employed by the then president, Niki Maveli, as his personal aide. He learns the art of (African) politics deceit, suppression of dissent, vote rigging, elimination of opponents, ignoring the suffering of the masses etc from Maveli.Kikumba would later put to very good use these skills and knowledge when Maveli dies and his successor, President Pigliosi, too, dies suddenly. The latter, a retired army general, was too old when he became president. Kikumba becomes the president very fortuitously.As prospective president, Kikumba depicts himself as a thinker a man with policies, which he calls targets , that he believes would set his country on the path to development. The first target is to engineer development without falling into traps of ideology such as the much-celebrated African Socialism , which several African presidents proclaimed at independence as the panacea to their countries myriad problems. Kikumba argues that one can build roads, schools, and the rest, not according to African Socialism but according to empirical principles. He sees scientific principles as a better guide to progress than mere cultural rhetoric. But isn t this just a matter of replacing one slogan with another clever-sounding one?The second target is to end corruption. Kikumba saw corruption as residing in two places among the public and within the government. If Kikumba s analysis sounds familiar, it is because it is familiar. Nearly all manifestos of political parties in the forthcoming elections will rehash this argument as they have done for the past many years. Kikumba decides that he needed to act symbolically by sacking the most corrupt public servant the chief justice and executing him. He believed that this murderous act would send a terrifying warning to those who plan to steal from the public in future.POPULATION CONTROLThe third target is to control the population. Kikumba s argument is that it is not possible to plan for and initiate development projects when the population growth is disproportional to the ability of the government or the citizens to support it. Here, another familiar trick by politicians is invoked. Lack of investment in skills and knowledge that would make citizens productive, as well as institutions that would anchor socio-economic progress is blamed on a ballooning population. Was this not a familiar refrain, especially in the 1970s and 80s?To win the presidency, Kikumba employs what he calls tactics get into a popular party (he abandons the ruling party, which he had joined after losing the elections on another party); win over the rural voters (there are more voters there than in the opposition-leaning urban areas); and get the trade unions on his side. Add to this intimidation or abduction of opponents. Rig votes in a few places and you are home and dry. That is how Kikumba ends up as the president of his country. Lucky? Maybe. Maybe not.This very familiar sounding story needs to be read simply because we all seem to know it, or do we? The danger in Kikumba s vision is the intellectual pretence of it. First, he is a product of the convoluted system that he argues should be replaced. Nowhere do we see him seriously opposing the murderous president Maveli that he serves so faithfully. There is no guarantee that even his so-called targets would lead to progress they are well-spelled out but not explained realistically.Second, if Kikumba is ready to murder one man in the name of fighting corruption, what would stop him from killing his opponents?Third, Kikumba s duplicity is probably more worrying than any other of his traits. He abandons his girlfriend in America when she is pregnant to return to Africa. The woman, Cynthia, had readily sacrificed her family s love to be with him the parents couldn t stand their daughter being in a relationship with an African. When later, as president, he confesses that he still loved her, it all sounds deceptive.Indeed Confessions of President Kikumba retells a very common tale in much of Africa. But this seemingly well-known story carries a haunting moral: don t you forget what you already know! email print email print Professional bodies in the fields of law and medicine make more information available on conduct Several number plates were recovered from a house belonging to one of the suspects.