President Kenyatta has vowed to teach Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho a lesson, accusing the county boss of pestering him and interfering with his work. He says Mr Joho, who was put under office arrest on Monday, should focus on his work as the county boss and stop interfering with national government projects. HEAVY SEARCH Police escorted the governor to his office after blocking him on Nyali Bridge as he headed to work in Mombasa town. "He should not play with us or else we will teach him a lesson," President Kenyatta said at Mtongwe Channel, where is re-launching a ferry, MV Likoni. Mr Kenyatta accused Mr Joho of failing to develop Mombasa and asked him to account for Sh40 billion given to the county as equitable share. "Mwambieni asituchezee...sisi tutamnyorosha (tell him not to joke with us... we’ll deal with him)," he has told the public at Mtongwe. PROJECTS He claimed the vocal county boss and the kingpin of the opposition National Super Alliance has been a thorn in the flesh of his leadership. He said Mr Joho should stop interfering with presidential functions or face unspecified action. Speaking during the re-launch of Mtongwe ferry services, President Kenyatta told Mr Joho to stop following him wherever he goes. "Why does he want to follow me? Am I his wife? He should tell people what he has done for them," he said. GARBAGE He claimed Mr Joho was trying to cling on projects initiated by the national governments because he knows he has done no development for locals. "He only wants to boast and show off. He should start cleaning the county, which is in a mess due to garbage," he said. Deputy President William Ruto said the Jubilee government was not interested in political power competition but service delivery to the citizens. He challenged the Mombasa county leadership to concentrate on serving the people, saying the city was sinking in drug menace. JOHO PROTEST "I ask you to elect leaders who will restore the pride and glory of Mombasa county and these leaders will come from Jubilee because Mombasa will change  under Uhuru leadership, "said Mr Ruto. During the ferry launch, the President said more vessels would be launched at the channel once two new ferries arrive in July. Mr Joho on Monday condemned his arrest and office lock-up after police informed him that they were under instructions not to allow him out until President Kenyatta leaves Mombasa. He protest the national government move to block him from the Mtongwe event, saying as the local governor, he has the responsibility of representing his people. The two leaders have Reported by Lucas Barasa, Daniel Nyassy and Ahmed Mohamed.   Police block, escort and detain Mombasa governor as President Kenyatta re-launches Mtongwe ferry.