Maseno School Principal Paul Otula has been interdicted following claims that a Form One student was sodomised by senior students. Homa Bay High School Principal Andrew Bwuop has been posted in Mr Otula’s place, according to an education ministry official privy to the deliberations but who is not allowed to talk to the media. Education officials have been investigating claims by a 16-year-old student that he had been sodomised by seniors in the school. According to the student whose story caused public uproar in January, a school captain and two others had sexually molested him. “Not only was the boy beaten, but he was also sodomised. We took him to Maseno Mission Hospital where he was treated before reporting to Maseno Police Station on January 24. I have all the documents,” said a guardian. However, Kisumu West Officer Commanding Police Division (OCPD) Wilston Mwakio, on Tuesday said the boy had only reported that he was beaten. “He reported that he was molested at night. Molestation is a general term, so when the officer recording the statement asked whether he was being beaten he affirmed. The officer took the case as assault,” said the OCPD. A statement at the station’s occurrence book reads: “….was molested by the school captain. On January 18, 2017 he was taken to Maseno Mission Hospital. It was reported but the school administration has taken no action. Case was referred to the office of gender and education.” Kisumu County director of Education Sabina Arori said she had dispatched five officers to investigate the matter at the school. According to Mr Wilston Mwakio, the boy’s case was intricate because he had neither reported of the molestation to the school nor at the police station. “When we saw the matter about sodomy trending on social media, we called the school to find out. The deputy principal did not know that the parent came to report at the station and also did not know about the issue of sodomy,” said Mr Mwakio in January when the case was reported.   Parents and children’s rights activists demand prosecution.