Tension ran high in Tiaty, Baringo, on Wednesday morning as locals fled their homes in fear of being targeted in an ongoing security operation. Hundreds of security officers have been deployed to the area to fight Pokot bandits, accused of killing people and stealing livestock. The operation, which started on Tuesday, is aimed at flushing out bandits and illegal herders who have invaded Baringo North and South sub counties. TRADERS FLEE More than 150 National Police Reservists and 230 police officers have been deployed to the county to take on the bandits and restore normalcy. A spot check by the Nation revealed that trading centers in Tiaty, including Chemolingot, Nginyang, Loruk, Churo and Tangulbei, were deserted and shops closed as residents fled the operation. Mr Paul Lotudo, a resident of Chemolingot, told the Nation that villagers left their homes almost immediately Deputy President William Ruto launched the operation on Monday. RUTHLESS “All the towns and centers in Tiaty are deserted and people have moved to the neighbouring Laikipia, Turkana and West Pokot counties for fear of being attacked by the police conducting the operation," he said. "Businesses have stalled in the towns and no vehicle is plying Loruk- Chemolingot." He claimed that the police were always ruthless and expressed fear that innocent people may suffer during the operation. VOLATILE “All the government officials from other communities who were working in Tiaty have since fled the area. Learning remains paralysed in all schools in the area and health centers have also been closed,” he added. According to Baringo County Administration Police Commander Robinson Ndiwa, the operation will only target the volatile areas in Baringo North and South sub-counties. Areas targeted include Kagir, Ng’aratuko, Kagir, Yatya, Chepkesin and Kinyach areas in Baringo North and Chebinyiny, Arabal, Noosukro, Ruggus, Mukutani and Ng’elecha in Baringo South. BANDITS “We have officially launched the operation to arrest the runaway insecurity in Baringo which has left more than 10 people killed and thousands of others displaced," said Mr Ndiwa. "We will not relent until we flush out the Pokot bandits who have deliberately wreaked havoc and will deal with them firmly." The AP commander said that they would not allow armed bandits to reign supreme in the area, killing people at will and stealing livestock. INTELLIGENCE “We have intelligence reports that the bandits moved three days ago towards Paka, Naudo, Akwichatis and Riongo areas in Tiaty. We will follow them to their hideouts and we urge the locals not to fear because we are not targeting a community but criminals. “We, however, urge the locals in areas of operation to tell us where the criminals hide because these are people who are known and they should identify them,” said Mr Ndiwa. More than 40 schools remained closed Baringo North and South despite the massive operation and it remained unclear when they will reopen.  