Drivers are expected to employ a cautious approach as they embark on the first part of the official reconnaissance of the route (or “recce”) for the 2017 Safari Rally Wednesday morning. Baldev Chager, who won the Safari Rally in 2013 and 2014, was careful in predicating the conditions of the stages as he prepared to begin the two day programme. “I’m hoping for a good recce although the pattern of the programme may prove slightly difficult for most drivers. “After the end of the first day of recce, drivers will be forced to return to the starting point to finalise the programme for the last day,’’ said Chager, who will be navigated by his long-term friend and navigator, Ravi Soni. Chager was optimistic about his chances of winning the Safari Rally again due to the new breed of rally cars that have proven a lot faster and quicker, among them Skoda and Ford Fiesta models. He will be in his familiar Mitsubishi Lancer Evo 10. However, Finland’s Tapio Laukkanen has proved many critics wrong by dominating the local rounds of the Kenya National Rally Championship in an old-fashioned Subaru Impreza, which helped him clinch the drivers’ national title last year. While most of competitors prefer to use 4x4 vehicles to inspect the route, Chager will be in a Subaru Impreza N10 station wagon, which is purposely built for the rugged conditions with heavy duty shocks and anti-roll bars. Though recce vehicles can be similar to rally cars, they should not be branded in any particular sponsorships colours, they must have exhaust pipe silencers and must remain in plain colours, according to the rules governing the sport. Today’s recce plans will take drivers through Ngong, Kedong, Suswa and Aberdare Hills before ending in Naivasha.  Tomorrow’s programme will take drivers through four more stages through Aberdare Hills, Elementaita, Ndundori and Gichecha Farm before it comes to an end. Reigning National Formula Two champion, Eric Bengi, has moved a class higher and in a different car since winning the National Formula Two title at the wheels of a Toyota RunX last year. He will now be at the wheels of a 4wd Subaru Impreza N10, which is seeded 32nd. Raaji Bharij, who won the recent Classic Rally, is the top-seeded Classic Class driver in a Ford Escort (No. 64). Others are Geoff Bell of South Africa (No. 201) and Kenya’s Rommy Bhamra (No. 107) in their respective  Datsun 240Z cars, among others. Almost all the foreign drivers are in Kenya in time for the official reconnaissance of the route. A team of three cars left Zambia two days ago. Zambia is represented by Jessy Muna Singh, the former African Rally Champion. Uganda is represented by Duncan Mubiru and George Semakula in a Mitsubishi Lancer Evo10. Others include Jas Mangat, Yasin Nasser, Hassan Alwi among others. Though registered under the Burundi Motor Sport Federation, Tanzania will be represented by Ahmed Huwel and Mohammed Roshanali.   Reconnaissance of route ends on Thursday, paving the way for two-day battle across five counties.