IN KAMPALA, UGANDA He harboured dreams of any aspiring footballer while growing up - become a superstar through school games, feature for a top club and play for the national team. He did all that, even going on to captain the national team to the 2017 Africa Cup of Nations – the first time Uganda were making the finals in 39 years. This week, all that came to a close after Geoffrey Massa, in his 30s, called time on his 12-year national team career. He retires as the country’s top scorer in Cup of Nations and World Cup qualifiers with 12 goals. In a statement posted on Fufa website on Wednesday, the striker expressed satisfaction for “an incredible career” and was “thankful for each and every moment" with the Uganda Cranes. GREAT SERVANT Tributes immediately began flowing in for Massa, who will forever be remembered for his blistering pace, power and commitment to the national team. Captaining Uganda in Gabon was the icing on the cake. “On a personal level he is an honest good man,” his former Cranes teammate Brian Umony told Daily Monitor. “He was always readily available to offer advice. I thought he wanted the best for everyone." “When he took over the mantle as captain he never isolated anyone. He was very approachable." “I remember my first Nations Cup qualifier against Kenya at Namboole he had learnt about me replacing David (Obua) in the line-up - a huge step and big shoes to fill. “He inspired slot of drive and confidence in me, which prepared me for that task. It is unfortunate we never qualified on the day.” Umony added: “He has been an exceptional leader as captain. I wish him (Massa) and his family all the best in the life.” NOT APPRECIATED ENOUGH Emmanuel Okwi is the other striker to have played alongside Massa and he knows what the former Mbale Heroes, Al-Masry, Bloemfontein Celtics, University of Pretoria and lately Baroka star brought to the team. “Massa is one of the best strikers I have played with,” said SC Villa striker Okwi. “And I will surely miss him. The country will miss his goals and leadership qualities.” Yet Massa, who made his debut against Ghana on September 4, 2005, was hardly a darling of many, with a good number of fans calling for his retirement every time he put a wrong pass during a match. “I think the country didn't appreciate him enough,” argued Okwi, “He gave his best every time he put on the national team jersey but I am surprised by the kind of treatment he got from the fans when things didn't go his way." “But all in all he has been a great servant of this country. I wish him the best for the rest of his career. May God Bless him.” KCCA striker Geoffrey Sserunkuma also believes Massa was often made a scapegoat for national team inefficiencies. “Previously we had good wingers who would cross the ball and with pace and power, Massa would put those away,” said Sserunkuma. “But now we have to appreciate that the body with time gives way. But even then, Massa needed that service from the midfield which he was not getting much. He has been a great servant.” Fufa President Moses Magogo described Massa as “a highly respected player in Uganda Cranes” and promised that the federation would organise a testimonial match for the player at a venue and date to be confirmed. THE JOURNEY Massa started out at Tobacco grounds in Jinja before featuring for non-league teams like Wama and Utoa. He later played for popular local side Walukuba in the lower tier at the time. He then featured for Mbale Heroes before moving to Police. Massa has since played professional football with Al-Masry, El Shams and Itesalat in Egypt, Yenicami Agdelen SK in Cyprus, Jomo Cosmos, Amatuks, Bloemfontein Celtics, University of Pretoria and lately Baroka in South Africa. FACTFILE 2004–2005: Police 2005–2007: Al-Masry 2007–2008: El-Shams 2008–2009: Jomo Cosmos 2009–2011: Itesalat 2011–2013: Yenicami Ağdelen 2013–2015: University of Pretoria 2015–2016: Bloemfontein Celtic 2016: Baroka National team: Since 2005 (19 goals) Afcon/World Cup qualifiers: 12 goals This article was first published by the Daily Monitor.  