The government will negotiate doctors and nurses push for creation of Health Service Commission, Principal Secretary Nicholas Muraguri says. Speaking in Voi, Taita Taveta on Friday evening while inspecting the building of Kenya Medical Training College, Dr Muraguri however said the creation of the commission will undermine devolution. “This is a matter of debate but we cannot create structures which may seem to undermine devolution,” he said. WAY FORWARD He said the matter will be discussed by senators, Council of Governors and “Kenyans at large’ to get the way forward. He said the government is committed to protecting devolution. “No effort should hinder us from implementing devolution structures including human resource management. We will however discuss this issue because we have goodwill from all stakeholders,” he said. MEDICS' INTERESTS Health workers want the formation of the commission which would cater for their interests. When formed, the centralised body will deal with employment, payment, promotion and disciplinary matters and will see health workers being moved from the Public Service Commission to the new commission. PS Muraguri said the government was working closely with Taita Taita government to improve health services in the county. IMPROVE HEALTHCARE An Intensive Care Unit will be set at Moi County Referral Hospital in Voi to improve accessibility to treatment. “We are in discussion on how we can be able to establish the centre as soon as possible,” he said. Residents have been forced to seek ICU services in Mombasa which is more than 140 kilometres away. He said the government has invested Sh380 million to improve the referral hospital by equipping it. NEW KMTC Voi constituency has set aside Sh20 million through the National Government Constituency Development Fund (NG-CDF) for the building of the KMTC. Voi MP Jones Mlolwa said the college will offer learning opportunities to local students and also ease the shortage of nurses in the county. “We have acute shortage of nurses in the county but with the college in place the students will help in offering services at Moi County referral hospital” he said. He said the construction of the college will be finished by April. Fourteen students have already enrolled for the training at Coast Institute of Technology in Voi as the construction continues. In Taveta, NG-CDF constructed a Sh400 million college and is set to open in September.  