When a girl named Jovial takes us behind the scenes and into the private life of our favourite female celebrity the result is the hit, 'Unakosa Raha'. Juggling a career in the limelight and a love life, clearly leaves one a little less jovial, she croons in flawless Swahili and the lyrics are as true as they are poetic. Since she burst on the scene, she has done collaborations with Juacali, Amz Jadidi. For the 25 year old, singing is the job she knows she was born to do. “Juliet Miriam Ayub is my official name as it appears on my ID,” she says with a smile. Explaining her perfect Swahili she explains she was born in the coastal town of Born in Mombasa and raised by a single parent who remains her biggest inspiration. “My earliest musical influence was my mother. I used to admire her when she was singing in church choir and this is how she inspired me to start singing. As a single mother, she used to sing whether in high or low spirits and it consoled her. As they say music soothes the soul. It still comforts me even as I mourn her loss. Music gives me strength to face another day. From home, Jovial would continue singing in school and her talent shone through. “I was in class six in my primary school years when I started singing at my local church and in school choir. I was the lead singer and our school participated in music festival competitions across Mombasa town.” TRUE ROOTS   Since then, Jovial has come a long way and her style has evolved. Though currently living and performing in Nairobi, her roots in Mombasa continue to define her art. “My style of music is Afro Fusion with a twist of Zouk and R&B. I love singing in Swahili language as I feel comfortable and this way I can express myself well to and I also believe it defines my true identity as a Kenyan, says Jovial whose name is almost as old as she is. ”The name Jovial started way back in primary school. My teachers used to describe me as a jovial person because I was always happy, laughing, making friends and rarely get upset. Thus, the name Jovial. I still believe I am that person, she says. “The highlight of my musical career so far is when I got the opportunity to work with Juacali – King of Genge in the track ‘Jiachilie’ and Calif records under Clemoh. I love and enjoy working with one of the best producer in Mombasa, producer Amz Jadidi. I have co-written most of my hit music with him and as always, our chemistry in the studio brings out the best in me.” The journey too has imparted some lessons. “In this music industry, I have learned that not everyone who purports to help has the best of interest or intension in their hearts. Some will use you for their own benefits or to support their agendas. I have learned to choose my friends wisely and being careful. Of course, I have made many new friends and hope to make even many more and through this, create more good music. "I have released about six audio songs ‘Hisia’, ‘Rudi nyumbani’, ‘Jiachilie’, ‘Chanda Chema’, ‘Unakosa raha’, ‘Kila la heri’ and four of them in videos (Jiachilie, Chanda Chema, Unakosa raha &  Kila la heri). I have also featured in a music video: - ‘Totti – Migogoro’. STAYING THE COURSE "I have performed in several gigs around the country with Mseto Campus Tour and a few more as well. One of my most memorable performance was in Molo Mashinani, I did not expect the crowd to cheer that much and sing along with me. I didn’t realize that that many people knew and appreciated my music. It was such an awesome and amazing experience. "I have shot only four music videos of my music so far and hope to do many more in the near future. My last music video was done by Johnson Kyalo of Top Notch Films. I love and enjoy working with him and the best in what he does. I hope to release many more music videos by him. I would also love to work with other producers like Teddy B, R Kay, and artists like Atemi, Jay D, Vanessa Mdee, Dela and many more. I feel they are so talented and I love what they contribute to the music industry. "My plans is to pursue my music career to the fullest. I am glad I have such a wonderful team working with me and our plans is to release more hits and collaborate with more artists in the future. I must admit though, its not easy starting out as an artist in music industry, good music certainly isn’t cheap to record and produce. Even tough, don’t expect to get back returns presumably in your first few music, but through perseverance, hard word, a good team and most important passion for music, it brings back returns to invest in music. **** In the mood for some real Kenyan music? https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aGzjQzXHepI&list=RDaGzjQzXHepI https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kclqJiEDMaw&list=RDaGzjQzXHepI&index=2  