Lecturers’ strike that entered its 54th day on Monday has been called off. The Universities Academic Staff Union (Uasu) announced on Monday it had signed a Collective Bargaining Agreement (CBA) with the government reaching a 17.5 per cent pay-hike deal. "The 2013-2017 CBA is an achievement by the academic staff; and Uasu national office congratulates all Uasu members for this victory. All our members are expected to resume research and teaching tomorrow (Tuesday) at 8am," said Uasu secretary general Constantine Wasonga. REJECT OFFER Dr Wasonga said that Uasu unity and solidarity of union members was of great value to the process of negotiating with the government saying it is an excellent example to other unions. Four days ago, the lectures rejected a second salary increase offer from the government of 18 per cent insisting that they would only take a 30 per cent salary increase per year for four years. Education Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i then warned that no lecturer would be paid until they resume work. Last month, they also rejected Sh10 billion offer arguing it was 3.2 per cent in basic salary and 1.6 per cent in house allowance and Sh2 billion would go to the employer as employee’s component of pension contribution. SIGN DEAL The highlight of the signed deal is that the lecturers will get 17.5 per cent increase in basic salary and a 3.9 per cent increase in house allowance across the board, except for Maasai Mara University for which previous higher increments have taken into account. “Uasu assures our members that this settlement was the best possible deal under the prevailing circumstances, as the CBA period is due to expire within three months,” said Dr Wasonga while he announced the signing of the agreement in Nairobi. He said that under the deal, academic staff will benefit from arrears that have accrued over the four years of the CBA, effective from July 1, 2013 to June 30, this year. "We thank the national government and IPUCCF of their commitment to conclude negotiations on the 207-2012 CBA to enable factoring in the upcoming 2017.18 budget. Uasu hopes that a new industrial action will not be necessary to bring IPUCCF to the negotiating table," Dr Wasonga said.   Last month, the lecturers rejected Sh10 billion that was offered by the government