There is a vapid counter-narrative being bandied about on news and social media to the effect that the Jubilee administration, particularly the Presidency, has done nothing in its first term. The timing of this barefaced lying, barely six months to the General Election, is telling. And it speaks of desperation and an anti-social psychosis that are so deep they deserve psychiatric examination. Tens of millions of Kenyans can see for themselves and have experienced every day of the last four years the transformation in their lives and communities. And they also attest to something else – the irrefutable fact that President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto have led this transformation from the front. President Kenyatta is the main target of this narrative of false witness, of the wilfully blind. The President has kept up such a punishing schedule in leading the transformation of Kenya under Jubilee, such an indefatigable pace that many unprecedented good things have happened on a serial basis. The clouded prism through which a section of the madly adversarial Opposition has chosen to view President Kenyatta and his achievements has only let their sense of True North be degraded by unwarrantably acidic and envy-laden profiling of the Head of State. One thing is for sure: President Kenyatta inherited hardware from the grand coalition government to which he has added great software and transformed the development arena into a model of what enlightened and visionary statesmanship can achieve in the shortest period. And he has done this in the best traditions of mature Western democracies or societies. To attempt to deny President Kenyatta’s achievements and denigrate them as nothing much is to be wilfully blind. And this is downright anti-social. Indeed, it is captured perfectly in the phrase ““there's none so blind as those who will not see”. However, when all is said and done, Opposition chieftain Raila Odinga, from whose ODM much of this manufactured and untruthful odium is flowing, should know numbers do not lie and are the emblems of victory in political contests – not idle heresies.  