Four employees of the Nyeri Water and Sewerage Company (Nyewasco) have been arrested for allegedly stealing Sh700,000 from their employer in a stage-managed robbery. The four, said to be cashiers at the water company, had reported that they were robbed by four gun-wielding men as they made their way to bank daily proceeds. They reported that the incident happened at around 3pm and that the men on motorcycles made away with the money. The said robbery happened outside Nyewasco premises, less than 50 metres from the main entrance which is under 24-hour guard. Nyewasco Managing Director Peter Gichaaga told the Nation by phone that he was away from his office when the report was made. “The workers reported the matter to the technical manager who then alerted police,” said Mr Gichaaga. FAKE ROBBERY Detectives said preliminary findings showed that the alleged robbery was fake and that the workers actually handed the cash to the men who are believed to be part of the scheme. Guards at the company’s offices told police that they did not see or hear any commotion that could signal the alleged robbery, a, statement which was supported by workers at the neighbouring fire department. Further investigations also revealed that the security camera that monitors the entrance and the spot where the robbery allegedly occurred had actually been removed three days before without the knowledge of Nyewasco’s administration. NO CCTV “After the report the logical thing to do was look into the CCTV footage of the entrance but I was informed it was removed on Friday. "They said that it had broken down and removed for replacement but I was not made aware of that,” said Mr Gichaaga. Nyeri Central Divisional Police Commander Muinde Kioko said that the inconsistencies in the said robbery raised suspicions of a well-planned inside job. “That was no robbery. It was an inside theft and we have arrested four of the workers who will be taken to court later,” said Mr Kioko. The police boss said that the four suspects were being questioned at the Nyeri Central Police Station before being arraigned in court.  