Champions Strathmore University Gladiators will be away to Western Jaguars on Saturday in Kakamega as they bid to maintain their winning start in this season s Kenya Hockey Union men s Premier League. The game is one of nine matches lined up this weekend across the country.Women s champions Telkom Orange face an uphill task again United States International University of Africa (USIU-A) on Sunday at the City Park Stadium, while the 2013 men s champions Kenya Police will be out to exact revenge on Chase Sailors in the weekend s final game tomorrow at the same venue.Gladiators got their title defence underway with a 2-0 win over 2012 champions Sikh Union Nairobi in their first match 10 days ago. Western Jaguars were hammered 8-0 by Butali Sugar Warriors in their opening match but bounced back to edge out Nakuru Athletic Club 3-2 in their second encounter. This was a rare win in the top flight after they lost all five matches last season.It is this unpredictable nature of the Jaguars that has Gladiators coach Meshack Senge wary of an upset. Playing on grass is quite tricky and Jaguars are tough to beat at home. They press hard going forward and we have got to be alert to be able to contain them, Senge said.Senge has also filled the void left by key players Constant Wakhura and Derick Kuloba, who joined Butali Sugar Warriors at the end of last season, with new signings Steve Nyabuto and Brown Wekesa. FITNESS A CONCERNJaguars coach Mike Malungu has warned the champions to expect a bruising encounter. We have got to keep their pace in check and also make use of the chances we get. It is a big match but we are up to the challenge, Malungu said. Orange will have a fully fit squad when they tackle USIU-A in what should be a mouth-watering encounter.Both teams won their first matches but Orange, who won this fixture 6-1 last season, are favourites to claim the three points.Orange assistant coach Josephine Ataro wants an improved performance from their 3-0 win over Chase Amira. We are yet to hit top gear and we struggled a bit in our first match. The match on Sunday will be physical and we therefore need to be ready for that, she said. Kenyan international Audrey Omaido, who has already scored two goals this season, is expected to lead the attack alongside veteran Jackline Mwangi.International Sandra Vodoti and Rhoda Nyambura will be the key players for the students.Kenya Police will be aiming to make it two wins on the trot but will need to stop Sailors danger man George Mutira, who masterminded Police s defeat last season.FIXTURES (All matches at City Park Stadium unless stated)SaturdayPremier Women: Chase Amira v Multimedia 12noonNational men: Parkroad Tigers v Daystar University -2pm, Wazalendo Youth v Kabarak University-2pm (Nakuru)Premier men: Nakuru v Wazalendo- 4pm (Nakuru), Western Jaguars v Strathmore- 4pm (Kakamega)SundayPremier women: Orange v USIU 11am, Strathmore v UON- 1pmPremier men: Parkroad Badgers v Greensharks 3pm, Chase v Kenya Police-5pm email print email print The report shows there are 558 people with tuberculosis out of every 100,000.The soldiers would continue with the operation until the National Security Council withdraws