If you have ever used a pit latrine, you know that one of the concerns is the fear that bad smell will soak into your clothes. This no longer need worry you if the newly-launched toilet pans are anything to go by. “I remember back in high school we would leave our sweaters outside when using pit latrines so that the smell coming from the toilet would not cling to our pullovers,” Benjamin Kibidi, a sales representative with Lixil Ltd, the company behind these innovative toilet pans, told an amused group of people who had visited their stand during the 3rd edition of Nairobi Innovation Week at the University of Nairobi grounds last week. According to  Kibidi, the toilet pans, which have a trap door at the bottom that is counterweighted to open and close automatically, not only eliminate bad odour coming from the pit, but also lock out flies, other insects and rodents, which may climb out of the pit into the interior of the latrine. Pit latrines are common in the village where there is abundant space to dig one. In the city, however, limited space favours flush toilets, which are odourless, unlike pit latrines. But the new toilet pans which resemble modern flush toilets bring with them the need to pour water into the latrine after using it. So, wouldn’t this be straining for villagers who face water shortage for domestic use? We asked. “The toilet pan only requires 200ml of water to flush away the waste. That is not a lot of water. Besides, the fact that you will need to pour water after use acts as a constant reminder to clean your hands after using the toilet, which instills a sense of hygiene in you,” says Kibidi. HOST OF OTHER ADVANTAGES Still, the toilet pans comes with a host of other advantages. For instance, they are safe for children, who in case of accidental falls, may fall through the latrine’s hole. Additionally, their smooth plastic surface makes them easy to clean. And the installation process is an easy, do-it-yourself process. “You can install it on an existing slab or a new slab when constructing a new pit latrine. When installing the squat toilet pan in an existing slab, you will need to increase the size of the hole for it to fit well. For the sitting pan, however, you do not have to increase the size of the hole. You only need to place it in alignment with the latrine’s hole and cement around it,” explains Kibidi. He adds that in case the latrine’s floor is made of wood; the sitting pan comes with holes drilled on its bottom so that one can attach it to the wood using screws. “When making a choice between the squatting and sitting pans, bear in mind the age of users,” notes Kibidi. “The sitting pans are recommended for children and the old while the squatting pans can be used by the rest.” “We have partnered with United Nations International Children’s Emergency Fund, and they have helped to determine the prices so that the products are affordable to the common mwananchi,” says Kibidi. He adds that the squatting toilet pan is going for Sh500 while the sitting pan is retailing at Sh1,300.  