Embu Governor Martin Wambora and several MCAs have demanded investigations into the sudden resignation of Alliance High School principal. The leaders also defended Mr David Kariuki over allegations of bullying at the school Mr Wambora said he will mobilise county leaders to pursue the matter at a “higher level” saying the principal had performed exemplarily and appeared to have been forced to retire. Speaking at Embu stadium where he disbursed Sh168million bursary funds, the governor said the investigations will establish if the resignation was political. “I am going to talk to my colleagues in politics to work as a team to defend our son. He is one of the best principals the country has seen,” he said. The governor made the remarks as Embu MCAs spent the entire afternoon debating the matter. Led by Majority Leader Andrew Musakwa, the MCAs claimed Mr Kariuki’s resignation appeared to have been malicious. Runyenjes MCA Steve Simba who was presiding over the Assembly sitting as temporary Speaker, allowed the ward representative to debate the matter as it concerns the people of Embu where the principal hails from. Mr Musakwa dismissed claims that the principal covered up the bullying meted on newly admitted students, stating that as a seasoned teacher, Mr Kairuki could not have made such a grave mistake in the prime of his career. “When we have one of us in high position and is being pushed without good reason, we have a reason to be angry. We are a small county and we should guard our people in senior positions,” said the Mwea MCA. Kyeni South MCA Salesio Kimaru termed the exit as deliberate provocation to the community. Nominated MCA Susan Wangai said the principal is a known achiever, who had transformed several schools into top performers and deserved a promotion instead of being elbowed out of the institution. Mr Kariuki quit following allegations of bullying at the school that are said to have left scores of students injured. The bullying was said to have been carried out by prefects and senior students for a long time yet the principal had not taken action.   Education Ministry has failed to employ professional staff to handle indiscipline in schools.