Education Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i has appointed new members to the board of Kenya Universities and Colleges Central placement service (KUCCPS) ending a row over the legality of the board. In a gazette notice dated March 13, Dr Matiang’i appointed new six members to replace those whose terms have expired. Technical University of Kenya Vice-chancellor Francis Aduol and his Maasai Mara University counterpart Mary Walingo have been appointed to represent public universities. They replace former University of Nairobi Vice-Chancellor Prof George Magoha and Jomo Kenyatta Vice-chancellor Prof Mabel Imbuga. Pan Africa Christian University Vice-chancellor Prof Margaret Muthwii and Scott University Vice -Chancellor Prof Mumo Kisau will represent private universities replacing Prof Noah Midamba (KCA University) and Prof Miriam Mwita formerly of University of Eastern Africa, Baraton. Mr Edwin Tarno and Glory Mutungi will represent Kenya Association of Technical Institutions (KATTI). Ms Mutungi replaces Callista Gitobu who retired. “They will serve for a period of three years with effect from January 13,” said Dr Matiangi’ in the notice. According to section 55(3) (g) and h of the universities Act, 2012, the CS is conferred with powers to appoint members to the board. The legality of the board was put to question last year in October, when the board ousted Chief executive officer John Muraguri. The issues were the continued stay of Prof Magoha, Prof Mwita and Ms Gitobu in the board yet they were no longer serving institutions they were nominated to represent. However, the suspension of Mr Muraguri who had been replaced by his deputy Monica Ng’ang’a, was revoked following a meeting between Dr Matiang’i and the board chaired by Prof David Ndetei The board also terminated the contract of a senior ICT consultant suspected to have played a key role in the placement of unqualified students in universities and colleges. Other board members include; Prof David Some Chief Executive Officer and Commission Secretary, Commission for University Education (CUE), Anthony Muriu (National Treasury), Charles Ringera (Chief Executive Officer Higher Education Loans Board (HELB), Ms Esther Karimi (Ministry of Education), Dr Kipkirui Lang’at (TVETA) and Mr Muraguri. The agency is a creation of the Universities Act of 2012 and replaced the joint admissions board (JAB) that handled admissions to public universities and colleges. It is tasked with coordinating and placing students in public universities and colleges by ensuring fairness, equity and openness.  