The National Treasury has unveiled the fifth and last Budget for President Kenyatta’s first term in office. Cabinet Secretary Henry Rotich on Thursday presented the 2017/2018 Budget Statement to both Houses of Parliament in Nairobi. SH1.7 TRILLION The government said it would spend Sh2.6 trillion, the largest ever spending plan in Kenya's history, that will be financed using taxes and borrowing. The Jubilee administration plans to implement the mega budget using Sh1.7 trillion from taxes and Sh900 billion from loans and grants.   Here are the key highlights of the Budget Statement as presented by Mr Rotich: The government raised its revenue collection by Sh500 billion from Sh1 trillion in 2013 to 1.5 trillion in 2016. Counties to receive a total of 329.1 billion in 2017/2018 against the Sh288 billion they got in the 2015/2016 financial year. The increase follows a spirited campaign by governors. Some Sh8.1 billion allocated to Kenya Police Service to buy more vehicles to facilitate officers' mobility as they fight crime, which, the minister said, has fallen significantly over the last five years. Harmonisation of salaries and allowances for public servants, including those of teachers and doctors, to start in July, with Sh20 billion set aside for that purpose. Government recruitment frozen in a bid to address the public wage bill crisis, except for crucial sectors such as education, where Sh2 billion has been set aside to hire teachers in primary and secondary schools. The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission gets an additional Sh21.4 billion on top of their yearly allocation to prepare for and conduct the August General Election as the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission gets Sh4 billion to fight graft. Some Sh75.6 billion allocated for the completion of the first phase of the Standard Gauge Railway and laying the ground for the construction of Phase II. The National Treasury says ordinary maize and wheat flour, and bread will be exempt from tax as it steps up the sin tax on expensive spirits from Sh150 to Sh200 per litre.  The Kenyan Budget was read three months earlier to provide funds that will be used to conduct the August General Election. Usually, the statement is read at the same time as those of other East African Community members states in June every year.  Updates by Brian Moseti, John Ngirachu and Harry Misiko.  