Mombasa Governor Ali Hassan Joho has declared Coast an ODM zone and announced the start of a vigorous campaign for party leader Raila Odinga’s presidential bid. The governor, who was given a heroic reception when he landed back in the country after a two-week tour of the US on Sunday, dismissed his rivals for the county chief seat, including his colleagues in the National Super Alliance (Nasa), as non-starters. He was categorical that his main rival was the Jubilee Party. Wiper Secretary-General Hassan Omar and Nyali MP Hezron Awiti have heightened their campaigns to dethrone Mr Joho, whom they have accused of poor leadership. The two have, however, to fight it out at the Wiper mini-polls “As you all know, Mombasa is an ODM zone. Our competitor is Jubilee and it is ODM candidates who will carry the day in August. The others have no chance whatsoever,” said Mr Joho. He was accompanied by MPs Rashid Bedzimba (Kisauni) and Badi Twalib (Jomvu). Mr Omar has ruled out joint Nasa nominations, insisting that all parties under the alliance be allowed to conduct their own mini polls. Mr Joho, however, said the mode of nominations was being worked on by a special team in Nasa and that supporters should not be swayed by opinions of individuals. Mr Omar and Mr Awiti accompanied Amani National Congress leader Musalia Mudavadi in various meetings in Mombasa over the weekend to market Nasa, where they criticised Mr Joho’s leadership skills. SUFFERED SETBACK Jubilee has already named businessman Suleiman Shahbal as its candidate for the governor’s seat with former MP Anania Mwaboza as his running mate. Mr Joho, who appears to have no opponent for the ODM ticket in the race to retain his seat, has however, suffered a setback after a number of ward representatives defected from ODM to Wiper. READ: Wiper says no deal yet on Nasa joint primaries Speaking in Changamwe, Jomvu and Frere Town on Sunday, Mr Joho, whose convoy caused a huge traffic jam, said Nasa would ensure the nominations were free and fair ahead of the August 8 elections. He said he would lead a major campaign for Mr Odinga in Mombasa and other coast counties in the countdown to the nominations. “Nasa has a team planning for its activities including its nominations. My competitor is Jubilee and not those other guys,” Mr Joho said. The governor, who is seen as a pointman of Mr Odinga at the Coast, sought to downplay campaigns by Nasa coalition partners Wiper Party and Amani National Congress during his absence, saying the region would “overwhelmingly” vote for ODM candidates at the polls. He announced that party would hold a major public rally at Tononoka grounds on March 27 when it would declare its political stand.  