Security officers deployed to Baringo to flush out bandits say they have taken control of one the the criminals' strongholds. Rift Valley Regional Coordinator Wanyama Musiambo on Friday said the officers had flushed bandits out of Ruggus, an area they had illegally occupied for the last 12 years, in Baringo South Sub-County. SHOOT, KILL The officers, he said, are now targeting Ng'elecha, which they expect to take over by Saturday. The administrator, who is overseeing the operation in Baringo and Kerio Valley, confirmed that the exercise was going on well. The operation was launched on Monday by Deputy President William Ruto, who ordered security personnel to shoot and kill bandits on sight. "The officers on operation are ahead of schedule... Our approach now is to kick out the armed bandits and to resettle people displaced by the rampant banditry attacks," said Mr Musiambo. 19 AREAS Interior Cabinet Secretary Joseph Nkaissery has gazetted 19 areas considered dangerous in Baringo County. These are Arabal, Kiserian, Mochongoi, Rugus, Mukutani, Chebinyiny, Komolion and Chepkalacha. Others are Makutano, Paka, Orus, Loiywat, Siale, Nando, Tangulbei, Chepkereriat, Kipnai, Ng’oron and Amaya. The operation targets to make these areas safe and inhabitable again. Mr Musiambo said the government was planning to cultivate more than 1,000 acres for locals who have been displaced, adding that they had already identified farms in Arabal and Embosos. SCHOOLS "We are appealing to locals who were displaced to go back to their homes because normalcy has returned," he said. "We have deployed enough security officers in the volatile areas." He also said all schools that had been closed due to insecurity would be opened on Monday. "We have deployed five police reservists and police officers in every school to beef up security," he said. POKOTS "We have also distributed food to more than 24 schools in Baringo South. We are only appealing to parents take their children to school." The operation has been opposed by Pokot leaders, who have accused the government of arming their rivals and leaving their community vulnerable. The Kenya National Commission on Human Rights has also faulted Mr Ruto's shoot-to-kill order, saying it was open to abuse and rights violation.   Locals flee their homes as police launch massive operation to arrest bandits in Baringo.