The day that the activist in Rita Mutheu was born began as a normal Monday for her. The self-trained make-up artist was online marketing her beauty products when she stumbled upon a video of a woman being stripped and touched indecently in broad daylight at a bus stop in Nairobi by a group of rowdy men. “She wore a red t-shirt and a black skirt. She was crying and pleading with her assailants but they were jeering, others taking photographs and videos of her. I remember feeling enraged, as if I was the one being stripped. I remember wondering why, if they felt her dressing was distasteful, they couldn’t cover her up,” she remembers. That video was hard for her to watch. When she began following the thread of comments, she saw someone say that activist Boniface Mwangi had offered anyone willing to plan a protest against such acts the space to do so at his offices, Pawa 254. “I stopped whatever I was doing, picked up my bag and went to Pawa 254, where I found 14 other women. That day, we founded the My Dress My Choice campaign. I didn’t even know that a protest needed to be planned. I thought we would just paint placards and take to the streets,” she recalls. The protest took place a few days later. More than 1,000 women and men showed up to protest the sexual harassment of women. Soon after, some of the men who had participated in the stripping incidents were arrested and charged. “The protests were a success. People stopped seeing grabbing and groping as a normal thing and began seeing it as a crime that could land you in prison,” she says. A LONG WAY HERE Before this, Rita spent most of her time online marketing her beauty products and make-up services. She had been running her business for a little over a year when the protests happened. And before that, she had worked for a data entry outsourcing company for seven years. She quit to become a self-employed make-up artist so that she could be a more present wife to her husband Kigera and their two children. “In retrospect, when I look at my social media posts, I see that I have always had a passion for women empowerment issues. I just didn’t speak out loud about it,” she says. In January 2015, a month after the protests, Rita and six other women got together to set up HER Voice, a foundation that champions women’s rights. Since the My Dress My Choice campaign had begun online, they decided to use the same means to continue with their agenda. “We meet most of the women and children we take under our wing online. We work together with lawyers and psychologists who provide their services for free. We also work with shelters where rescued victims can find a safe haven,” she says. While she is happy with the progress they have made so far, there are still those who misunderstand the organisation’s agenda. “There are people who think that we want to be men. That is not the case. We want women to get all the support they can get to become the best women they can be. We aren’t against men – we respect their role in society,” she emphasises.  *** LESSONS LEARNT The lessons she has learnt on this journey? “Change begins with you. Complaining will not do much. If you see something that you do not like, do something to change it. Also, unlike what most people believe, you do not need to have a lot of money to effect this change,” she says. Rita also reckons that the notion that woman are their own worst enemies is just propaganda that women have heard so many times that they believe it. In her view, there is no truth in it. The organisation has made progress working with abused women and children but still, there is work to be done. “We have come a long way. Now perpetrators of sexual harassment know that they can be jailed. Ultimately though, we want to build a one-stop centre for abused women that will house a police station, doctors, psychiatrists and a rescue centre so that a woman just needs to walk in and she will be adequately cared for. I can see a light at the end of the tunnel and I am glad that it is not a train,” she says. An ideal Kenya for her? “One where women can be listened to and taken seriously without being accused of being emotional.”  