Likoni Channel in Mombasa will now be decongested after the government officially commissioned MV Likoni President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto presided over the ceremony in Mtongwe before boarding the ferry. The Channel has encountered major challenges due to old vessels and increased numbers of commuters. READ: Commuter crisis at Likoni feared President Kenyatta said more than 30,000 people will be crossing the channel daily. "We will add more vessels at this channel when two new ferries arrive in June or July this year," he said. The government is importing the two new vessels from Turkey at a cost of Sh2.2 billion. President Kenyatta, who was accompanied by his Deputy President William Ruto, said his government is investing heavily in infrastructure in the Coast to open up the region for investment and tourism, which will create job opportunities for the youth. "We are going to open up a new road from Samburu to Kinango heading to Kwale and we know it will also open up the region. "We are investing in water, electricity and roads because we know they will attract investors to put up industries here, grow the economy and create jobs" he said. The resumption of the ferry operations is a big relief for thousands of Mtongwe residents who have missed the service since 2012. The Kenya Ferry Service (KFS) gave the Mtongwe berth a facelift at a cost of Sh6 million. FERRY REVAMPManaging director Bakari Gowa said recently the revival is part of various efforts to decongest the channel and boost the region's economy. "We understand that people from Mtongwe have been affected by the suspension of service at this channel and that is why we believe restoring it will impact on the economic activities," Mr Gowa said. Ferry services at Mtongwe were halted after the government decommissioned two old ferries for being unseaworthy. Dilapidated infrastructure also caused withdrawal of services. In 1994 more than 270 people died in a ferry disaster at Mtongwe in one of Kenya’s worst maritime mishaps. The withdrawal of the vessels put pressure on the Likoni Channel leading to congestion. Mtongwe residents also complained that the lack of ferry services made value of their land and houses to drop. Currently five ferries (Mv Likoni, Mw Kwale, Mv Harambee, Mv Kilindini and Mv Nyayo) are operational. Mv Nyayo was put to use last month after undergoing repairs, engine overhaul and installation of generators.  