Nasa co-principal Raila Odinga has dismissed claims that the alliance is falling apart. He said all the co-principals in the coalition are inseparable and described as untrue statements claiming that Wiper party leader Kalonzo Musyoka may bolt. "I spoke to Kalonzo this morning who assured me that he is still committed to the alliance," he said. He also criticised the way the government is handling Mombasa Governor Ali Hassan Joho over his examination credentials. He said the Jubilee administration is fighting Mr Joho because of his tendency to speak the truth. He told the Jubilee leaders that their time of reckoning is coming and they should prepare to leave office. "Governor Joho has not made any mistake and I see no reason for the government to continue harassing him," said Mr Odinga. PAY DOCTORS The ODM leader also urged county governments to pay doctors their salaries. Mr Odinga said the national government is to blame for the industrial unrest that paralysed health services at public hospitals for over three months. He added that doctors’ salaries had been budgeted for and there is no need for counties to create new standoffs with the health workers. "County governments should follow suit and pay the health workers because the strike was as a result of failure of the government to honour the 2012-2013 CBA," he said. He said there is a need to establish a health service commission that will ensure proper resource management to spur growth in the sector and improve services across hospitals in the country. Mr Odinga was speaking at Kisii University, where he closed the inaugural Lake Region Health Conference. Attending the gathering were governors Cyprian Awiti (Homa Bay) and John Nyagarama (Nyamira), deputy governors Phillip Kutima (Kakamega) and Joash Maangi (Kisii), Kisii County Health Executive Sarah Omache and Kisii County Assembly Speaker Kerosi Ondieki.   Bigwigs issue ultimatum to Nasa and threaten to quit if Kalonzo is not handed coalition's flag #ElectionKE