Ms Nancy Soila , 39, a divorcee and mother of two thought she had landed the ultimate relationship when she met and moved in with her boyfriend. The relationship was rosy for the next four years, until 2011, when the proverbial hell broke loose. She had also been hosting her friend whom she had given one of the rooms in her house. She came home from work one day when she found her friend, who Nancy had been hosting in one of the spare rooms, in bed with her boyfriend. “I didn’t know the two were having an affair and when I gave her a room in my house. I did not know that my boyfriend used to creep into her room at night until the day I caught them,” she says. HUGE CONFRONTATION This led to a huge confrontation. “When I caught them, they both started fighting me and in the process we broke one of the window glasses .Since they were overpowering me I took one of the pieces and threw it to the girl which cut into her neck and she collapsed.” That injury cost Nancy's friend her life. Nancy was arrested and charged at the Nakuru High Court. Three years later, the court found her guilty and sentenced her to hang. Luckily, during the Presidential pardon on December 12 , 2016, Nancy's sentence was reduced to life imprisonment. “During the hearing of the case, my boyfriend testified against me. He claimed he didn’t know me and I was only a girlfriend he had known for a few days despite living with him for five years.” Ms Soila says during the first days in her sentence, she struggled to admit even to herself that she was serving a life sentence. “I wondered what my children were eating but thankfully, my ex-husband took the children and he has since been raising them and paying for their school fees.” Her ex-husband is the only visitor she has received ever since she was detained. “Although he got married to someone else I am grateful that he decided to take care of my children.” She says the life behind the bars has taught her a number of lessons which include anger management. She said living positively while serving a life sentence is admitting that you committed a crime, accepting that you committed a crime and be ready to change. “Being in jail is not easy. It would be best if life sentence is reduced to, say, 20 years. At least one would get the motivation of reforming and going back to their children.”    