Talks with religious leaders aimed at resolving 94th day doctors strike stalemate has finally resulted to an agreement with the government but it is not yet a deal after the Court of Appeal extended the period for negotiations with county bosses. Court of Appeal judges Hannah Okwengu, Martha Koome and Sankale Ole Kantai on Tuesday directed that the matter be mentioned next Monday with a view of recording a settlement since the talks had seen an agreement reached on the contentious issues except the modalities of signing of three documents. THE CBA Before the directive was issued, the religious leaders told court that parties were at liberty to enter into a Return to Work Formula, conclude the revised Recognition Agreement and the Collective Bargaining Agreement. “We did hold meetings going into wee hours of the night. This has culminated  a way forward, issues that were a stumbling block have been nevertheless agreed and are captured in the report presented before you,” Mr Peter Gachohi for the religious leaders said. Kenya Medical Practitioners, Pharmacists and Dentists Union officials’ lawyer Phillip Murgor admitted that indeed the talks had yielded fruit since the contentious issues, which involved the financial aspect, had been agreed upon. He pointed out that the involvement of the Head of State had played a key role, and that there had been an adjustment on the part of the government. POLITICS “We have made further major concession on issues of finances which has been the most contentious, this is subject to the execution of signing relevant documents,” Mr Murgor said. He added: “there is a still a process, doctors are ready to execute those documents even today.” However, the Health ministry first told court that the issues raised in the revised CBA had not been agreed but later admitted that it is only the matter of signing documents that was remaining, and that the government needed time to talk with county governments before that takes place. KMPDU dismissed the Council of Governors claim that the report had political connotations. MEDICS FEARS A cancelled statement in the report had indicated that KMPDU was in agreement with everything in the report as of Tuesday morning but the religious leaders had it removed since there was still a dispute on which document should come first on signing. Whilst both government and governors want the Return to Work Formula come first and the CBA last, the doctors insist that the latter should be given top priority owing to fears that it may be dismissed for a second time. “In view of the above, this being a matter of great public interest, we are minded to grant a further mention to allow parties to continue with negotiations to complete the outstanding issues,” the judges ruled. The report presented before court by the religious leaders indicates that President Uhuru Kenyatta agreed to increase doctors risk allowance, which is set to be backdated from July 2016. SH14.5 BILLION The increase will see doctors wage bill reach Sh 14.5 billion per annum from the current remuneration before any adjustments, which stands at Sh 10.2 billion. The report has been signed by Kenyan Conference of Catholic Bishops’ John Cardinal Njue, Archbishop of the Anglican Church of Kenya Jackson Ole Sapit, Moderator Presbyterian Church of East Africa Julius Mwamba and Sheikh Adan Wachu of the Interreligious Council of Kenya as well as Supkem. It points out that in the December 2016 meeting between the President and KMPDU officials, it was agreed that each doctor will be awarded 10,000 per month as risk allowance. It was also agreed that the emergency call allowance will range from Sh 66,000 for interns to Sh 80,000 per month for the highest paid doctors. SH13.9 BILLION This increased amount will result the doctors pay to go up to Sh 13.9 billion per annum. It has also been proposed that payment of either of the two allowances be backdated to start from July 2016. If the risk allowance is backdated, it would translate to an additional Sh600 million to the government’s budget while the emergency call one would cost Sh 570million. On Salaries, the government indicates that it has released all monies to all counties for the period which doctors have been on strike. It was further agreed that there would be no victimisation on either side. SH224,000 “The above proposals have been accepted by both parties what remains is the modalities of signing the three, we the religious leaders believe that we have delivered on our mandate, we therefore leave the matter to the court’s discretion for further directions,” the report reads. According to the disputed salary figures as at February 20, which led to the failed talks with the Law Society of Kenya and the Kenya National Commission on Human Rights, the lowest paid doctor is between Sh 196,000 and 224,000 while the highest one is Sh 520,020 and Sh 609,906. Outside court, the union officials blamed the county governments for delaying calling off the strike.   Participants will include John Cardinal Njue and Jackson ole Sapit.