President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto used their tour of Kiambu county on Saturday to display their unity and downplay the Opposition’s chances of taking power from them in the next General Election. During stopovers in Limuru, Lari, Githunguri and Kiambu sub-counties, the two leaders warned the National Super Alliance (Nasa) leaders not to start unnecessary fights with the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission and instead put their house in order. “We want to tell our competitors that instead of wasting time to fight with IEBC, they should organise themselves by identifying their candidate, the party and manifesto which so far they do not have, so that we can face each other on August 8,” Mr Ruto charged. The DP rubbished claims by the Nasa team they would beat Jubilee, saying, “In any case, if they will proceed as they are today, we will win by 70 plus one per cent. The trap they have been talking about in the name on Nasa will actually net them,” President Kenyatta told off the Opposition leaders over their sustained criticism of the IEBC, saying they should let the commission focus on ensuring that the election will be free, fair and transparent. He said the team was “a lost one”, because “they do not know where they are coming from and where they are headed to”, adding that they are being driven by greed and not the will to serve the country. “We do not want people who are putting up fights with IEBC because it will tamper with their efforts of conducting free, fair and transparent elections. Our opponents should tell us what agenda they have for the country,” he said during a stopover at Kagwe Trading Centre. NORTHERN SIDE At the rallies in the northern side of Kiambu, which President Kenyatta was visiting on a development tour for the first time since election, they said their team already had a party, a presidential candidate and a manifesto, thereby making them prepared for the election on August 8. In Githunguri, the President announced the rehabilitation of Uplands-Githunguri-Ruiru Road and Kimende-Kagwe-Githunguri road, which have been in a deplorable state, saying his administration had secured funds from the French government. The Kenya National Highways Authority last week advertised the tender for the 47-kilometre Uplands-Githunguri-Ruiru road. The duo maintained that Jubilee Party primaries would be free and fair, and asked the electorate to ignore claims that they have favourite candidates. According to them, Nasa, which is under former Prime Minister Raila Odinga, Mr Musalia Mudavadi (Amani National Congress), Mr Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper Democratic Movement) and Mr Moses Wetang’ula (Ford Kenya), is ill-prepared for the contest. Mr Ruto said: “Instead of selling their manifesto, which in the first place they do not have, they are thinking of creating the position of a Prime Minister and two deputy presidents so that they can get power. This clearly shows that their intention is to quench their thirst for power but not to serve Kenyans”. The Head of State described the Opposion leaders as failures, saying the top four leaders served in powerful positions in previous governments for many years, but did not have anything to show for it. He particularly took issue with Mr Odinga who, he said, wasted his chance of showcasing to Kenyans his leadership qualities as prime minister by causing trouble within President Mwai Kibaki’s government. His administration, he said, had much to show for the four years they have been in office.  