A car belonging to musician, Kanyi Njagua, popularly known as Jaguar, has hit and killed two people, including a student, in Kirinyaga County. The musician, police say, was driving his Range Rover heading towards Makutano when he lost control and veered off the road before hitting a motorcyclist and his passenger, the student at Rukanga on Wednesday. DIED ON THE SPOT Police on Thursday said the vehicle, which was later towed to the Sagana Police Station, had "loose chippings" (sic). The motorcyclist, Mugo Mwangi, 21, and the student, James Maingi,21, died on the spot and their bodies were taken to the Kibugi Mortuary. The musician on Thursday morning took to social media to express his distraught about the accident, moments after news of it went viral. “It is with grief that I share this post today. As it is now public, I was involved in a car accident. Sadly, lives were lost in the incident. VEERED OFF “It isn’t any one's will to wake up and be involved in an accident such as this. My heartfelt condolences to the families and friends of those affected. I would like to assure all concerned that due process of the law is being followed to amicably resolve this,” he said and asked the public to refrain from any sort of confrontations. Mr Njagua told the Nation on phone that he was driving onSagana- Makutano road when the motorcyclist tried to cross in front of him. “I tried my best to stop but it was too close. The car hit the two and we all veered off the road,” he said, adding that he was with two other occupants in the car. WOMAN He denied claims by some blogs that the car was being driven by a woman, and said that witnesses had already recorded statements on the incident at the police station. “It was an unfortunate incident and it is sad that some people are talking about things they know nothing about,” Mr Njagua, who has announced his interest in the Starehe parliamentary seat, said. None of the three occupants of his car was injured. Central Region Traffic Commander Jane Kuria confirmed the fatal crash saying the musician, official name Charles Kanyi, was behind the wheel of the Range Rover at the time of the accident.  Additional reporting by Nicholas Komu.  