Wiper Democratic Movement leader Kalonzo Musyoka has claimed that Deputy President William Ruto should not be allowed to hold any public office because he is unfit. Mr Musyoka advised President Uhuru Kenyatta to get rid of his deputy if he intends to make commendable strides in the graft war. "I agree with Mr Kenyatta that the corrupt should be barred from holding public office. But let him look next to him, behind and besides him. DP Ruto is unsuitable for office," he said in Mariakani, Mombasa, which is was one of his stops in the Coast region where he is popularising the National Super Alliance (Nasa). Mr Musyoka added that if he is elected president of Kenya he will rejuvenate the Coast economy by building factories to create jobs, and weed out tribalism. "As Nasa we will end tribalism and unite all Kenyan tribes unlike Jubilee that unites only two tribes leaving the majority out," he said at the Mariakani KCC ground. He further accused Jubilee Party, led by Mr Kenyatta and his deputy, of paying ODM leaders to defect. The latest defector is Taita Taveta Senator Dan Mwazo and the county's Woman rep Joyce Lay. READ: Dan Mwazo moves to JP for its progress record - VIDEO The Nasa co-principal said the Jubilee government has over-borrowed and if an Opposition candidate is elected president the country's huge foreign debt will be renegotiated, maintain peace in conflict-prone counties and help to successfully restore peace in Somalia. "Jubilee has failed to deliver and must go home on August 8. It can't even manage security matters. You saw how DP Ruto fled Baringo North after gunshots ranted close to where he was," he said. READ: Raila comments on Ruto's rally interrupted by gunshots Mombasa Senator Hassan Omar said the Coast region has been marginalised by past and current governments and only Nasa is able to rectify the situation. Senator Omar observed that leaders from the region merely get appointed to 'inferior' ministry dockets such as Tourism, which is headed by Najib Balala. Hence, his party leader should appoint Coast leaders to head crucial dockets. Other Coast leaders who rooted for Kalonzo Musyoka to be the Nasa candidate are MPs Badi Twalib (Jomvu) and Stephen Mule (Matungulu), among others.  