Security was tight as the fourth devolution conference began in Naivasha Tuesday morning. Delegates were confronted by several layers of security checks right from the Nakuru-Nairobi highway at the junction leading into Naivasha Town and to the Kenya Wildlife Service Training Institute, the venue of the conference. Any delegate driving to the venue whose vehicle did not have the conference’s security sticker was turned away. Even those who had them had to walk for about a kilometre and half to the venue as vehicles were not allowed in. Further, all those accredited had to produce their delegates' badges in addition to national identity cards for confirmation. The conference started at 10am on a low note, with just a handful of delegates present. The programme had indicated the conference, the last before the August general election, would start at 8am. Hundreds of seats, draped in white, remained unoccupied for hours as delegates slowly trickled in. Only a handful of governors were present at the time. They included Mr Ahmed Abdullahi (Wajir), DR Evans Kidero (Nairobi), Mr Wycliffe Oparanya (Kakamega) and the host, Mr Kinuthia Mbugua of Nakuru, who was scheduled to give the welcoming remarks at the opening session. DELEGATES The delegates also include senators, members of county assemblies, county government staff, diplomats, including US ambassador Robert Godec, and international and local business people. President Uhuru Kenyatta was expected to officially open the conference later in the day. The first session kicked off with small-scale traders from various counties giving their "devolution stories." They said despite the fact that much development had been achieved in the last four years after Kenya adopted the devolved system of governance, the key challenge remains high taxation by the counties. Ms Esther Nyokabi from Naivasha told participants that taxes are too high compared to their returns. However, she said she is happy that work is being done. “The business rates are too high. But there are positive developments such as garbage collection and county roads being murramed," she said. Kisii Deputy Governor Joash Maangi defended counties over claims that they charge high charges. "The tax regime in counties [is] very friendly," he said. Reporting by Dave Opiyo, Caroline Wafula, Njeri Rugene and Macharia Mwangi   Mr Ruto will on Thursday close the devolution conference.