The main challenge facing the current administration is fighting corruption that has reached alarming levels. The National Youth Service scandal where some Sh791 million was lost through dubious deals, the suspected loss of Sh5 billion at the Health Ministry and the scandal over the Rio Olympic Games remain unresolved. Only this week, the Nation serialised stories of suspected fraudulent deals at the Kenya Pipeline Company, which facts the firm has refuted. On the whole, the citizens are appalled at the inaction and apparent intention to sweep the scandals under the carpet. What the citizens want is decisive action to rein in the suspects and have them charged in court. On Friday, President Uhuru Kenyatta reshuffled several principal secretaries, which in our view, presented him with the chance to crack the whip and deal with those adversely mentioned in scandals. Dr Nicholas Muraguri, who has been Health PS, was widely mentioned in the Sh5 billion scandal at the ministry exposed by our sister publication, the Business Daily. He even had the temerity to threaten the reporter who penned the story. At the height of the recent doctors’ strike, his boss, Cleopa Mailu, the Cabinet Secretary, accused him of insubordination and his name kept featuring as the stumbling block to the negotiations. He has been moved to the Lands Ministry. Mr Patrick Nduati Mwangi, who has been at the Water and Irrigation Ministry, controversially awarded the second lowest bidder a tender contract worth Sh62.3 billion to build Thwake in Makueni in direct contravention of the directive by his minister, Eugene Wamalwa. This has forced the financier, the African Development Bank, to withdraw the funding. Mr Mwangi, however, has been transferred to the ministry of Industry. Mr Richard Ekai, who was Sports PS, was implicated in the Rio Olympics debacle, together with Minister Hassan Wario, but now has been shifted to the Correctional Services Ministry. These are just examples, but the point is that such individuals with integrity questions should not be shuffled but shown the door to send the surest signal that the Presidency wants to end corruption and clear the mess in the public service.  