The Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) has changed its dates for nominations and they will now start a week later than had earlier been planned. The first batch of the counties to hold their primaries on April 7 are Bungoma, Machakos and Busia, with Nairobi, Makueni and Garissa being the last three on April 22. “In order to give room to our MPs to take part in the budget process for the Financial Year 2017/18 taking place in the first week of April, the board has revised its earlier timetable for the party primaries,” National Elections Board chairperson Judith Pareno said in a statement. Ms Pareno assured candidates that there will be fairness in the nominations. “We assure our members and all aspirants that the exercise will be conducted in a free and fair atmosphere,” said Ms Pareno. On April 9, the party will hold nominations in Kisii, Nyamira, Samburu and Trans Nzoia, while Mombasa, Kilifi, and Kwale will have theirs on April 11. Kisumu, Siaya and Tana River counties will have their nominations on April 13, while Turkana and Kakamega will hold theirs on April 15. On April 17, ODM will hold nominations for Kajiado, Narok and Taita Taveta, and on April 19, hold those for Homa Bay, Lamu and Migori. Nakuru, Uasin Gishu and Vihiga will have their primaries on April 21. The party had announced that in the other counties not in the list (21), it will give direct tickets as their candidates there have no opposition. "In areas like Mt Kenya and some parts of Rift Valley where the party is not strong, we will issue direct nominations but in our strongholds, we shall hold open nominations," said Ms Pareno last week, before the dates were changed. ODM primaries schedule Friday April 7: Bungoma, Busia, Machakos Sunday April 9: Kisii, Nyamira, Samburu, Trans Nzoia Tuesday April 11: Mombasa, Kilifi, Kwale Thursday April 13: Kisumu, Siaya and Tana River Saturday April 15: Turkana and Kakamega Monday April 17: Kajiado, Narok and Taita Taveta Wednesday April 19: Homa Bay, Lamu and Migori. Friday April 21: Nakuru, Uasin Gishu and Vihiga Saturday April 22: Nairobi, Makueni and Garissa  