Governors are under pressure to appoint in their cabinets loyalists and politicians, even as some are warned against ignoring affirmative action. In Kisumu, for instance, former Deputy Governor Ruth Odinga demanded that Governor Anyang’ Nyong’o should not sideline women in senior county government appointments, arguing that women had been largely unsuccessful in seeking both elective and nomination slots. “What happened to the campaign tool used by most governors especially from Nyanza that they would choose women as their DGs (deputy governors)?” she asked. Prof Nyong’o, however, played down Ms Odinga’s assertions, saying he was still recruiting and would consider everyone who applies. LINE-UPS Elsewhere, county bosses were working overtime to ensure their line-ups were in place. In Uasin Gishu, Governor Jackson Mandago restructured his cabinet and appointed three members of the county executive team. He forwarded the names of the three nominees to the county assembly for vetting, promising to appoint the next seven in due course. Meanwhile, two Executive committee nominees presented by Governor Joseph ole Lenku have been rejected by the Kajiado County Assembly. Ms Caroline Chege (Public Service) and Joseph Sankale (Water and Irrigation) were rejected as the assembly called on the governor to consider competence, experience and performance, not political rewards. NOMINATIONS Separately, former Standard journalist Adow Jubat is among seven members nominated by Garissa Governor Ali Korane for various positions. Three more will be nominated later, he said. In Kisii, only four executives are expected to retain their positions should a list tabled before the assembly’s Committee on Appointments be approved. Governor James Ongwae said his reorganisation and restructuring of the county government was to ensure competency and effectiveness in service. In Nyamira, Governor John Nyagarama appointed four new members to his team, which is awaiting vetting. He also promoted two former chief officers to the cabinet. In Mombasa, communication director Richard Chacha said plans were afoot to advertise the county executive positions. ANXIETY In Kilifi and Tana River counties, there was anxiety following delays over the appointment of the executives, with residents saying this was affecting services. READ: Journalist among 7 county chiefs named by Garissa governor READ: Centre calls for gender balance at county jobs The Lamu and Kwale county assemblies Wednesday vetted six nominees named by governors Fahim Twaha and Salim Mvurya respectively. Lamu Speaker Abdu Kassim Ahmed led the vetting of six nominees, with Deputy Speaker Abdalla Aboud saying a report with recommendations would be presented in the house in a week’s time. In Taita-Taveta, only one county executive member who worked under former Governor John Mruttu has been retained in the 10-member cabinet named by Governor Granton Samboja. The list will be handed to the assembly for vetting. RETAINED Embu Governor Martin Wambora retained only four of his executives from his first term. The list has three women and seven men. Laikipia Governor Ndiritu Muriithi also named his eight-member cabinet, among them two youths to man the ICT and Tourism dockets. Meru County Assembly Clerk Jim Kauma said the list of nominees was with the Committee on Appointments for consideration. Meanwhile, Murang’a MCAs approved 10 nominees for the executive seats. By Barrack Oduor, Rushdie Oudia, Dennis Lubanga, Wycliffe Kipsang, Elgar Machuka, Henry Nyarora, Mohamed Ahmed, Brian Ocharo, Kalume Kazungu, Fadhili Fredrick, Charles Wanyoro, Mwangi Ndirangu, George Munene, Abdimalik Hajir and Joseph Ngunjiri  