Who is Cate Rira? Cate is a spiritual and ecstatic lady who is not only a radio voice, but an all-rounded media enthusiast.   Tell us about your career path. I started out as intern at one of the best recording labels, Motion Image and Sound (MIS). This was before I shifted focus to radio. My first attempt, through a competition, did not go well but I later landed a gig, The Drive Show on One FM. I have been doing the show solo for more than a year now.   Was radio something you had always wanted to do? Yes, it had always been at the back of my mind.   How did you find out you were cut out for media I came to realise that my outspoken personality was made for media and I am forever grateful.   What do you think sets you apart from other radio presenters? I am very engaging. I love going the extra mile in making my audience feel comfortable enough to express themselves. I crave client satisfaction as well as audience satisfaction. Even though it’s not easy, it’s still achievable.   What drives you in life? The desire for a better life. Just kidding. I have to have a name that surpasses my existence. That’s what motivates me each passing day.   What’s a day in your life like? Oh, it’s very eventful. I’m always around people from my morning TV shows to my radio shows, but I still take time to be a sister and daughter to my family.   Do you have any corporate endorsements? Sadly, not yet. 2017 is however not over yet, so I am hopeful that things will end well.   What else do you do? Apart from radio presenting? I do content production with a company known as Bundi Films. You will soon be subscribing to and watching my channel on YouTube. I’m also into charity.   Who do you look up to in the media industry? So many people, but Cess Mutungi as a radio host and Julie Gichuru as a TV personality.   How do you balance out work and personal life? I always set aside time for my personal life, and even more so, my family and friends understand my work.   How do you handle the rising popularity? I would be lying if I said am used to it. The responses I get still shock me. It’s a little funny though, how people reach out with bizarre requests.   How do you handle the stress? I’m a spiritual person. Family and prayer keep me sane. Everyone should try it.   What’s your long term plan? Well, definitely to be more refined. You will have to stay tuned to see how that goes.   Are you pressured to act in a certain way around people? I feel it at times but isn’t it always better to be yourself? Whoever does not like it can live with it.   Would you say you enjoy your own company? I do, actually. A little too much than usual.   On that note, what do you like doing when you are alone? I like trying out new recipes and dancing as well.   Heels or sneakers? Heels. I like the look. The pain is there just to toughen you up.   You’re quite stylish, where do you get your clothes from? Mainly in Nairobi. I have a couple of stylists who keep me in the loop when there is a hot new look or trend.   Who would you say your best friends are? My two sisters are my closest friends. You’ll always see them on my social media. They never see me as a celebrity but as their friend.   Favourite destination? Thailand.   Favourite meal and drink? I love, love, love chicken! I like juices as well. Passion and pineapple flavours to be precise.   Favourite hangout joint? None yet.   Most exciting moment in your life? It hasn’t happened yet for me, but being called by my pastor to participate in the church was very humbling for me.   Do you gym and watch what you eat? Yes. I do work out as well as detox on a regular basis. I also avoid junk foods as much as I can.   Parting words? We all have potential as well as a gift. We can find them but we have to use them at all cost to make the world a better place. 
 