Questions are the stock-in-trade of police, clinical officers, examiners, researchers and ne’er-do-well journalists, not self-respecting judges of the Supreme Court. Yet, after a 21-day wait for reasoned explanations why four judges overturned the will of the people in the presidential election, the country was last week given a serving of 35 questions the Supreme Court itself could not answer. Most of the questions are wrong and should never have been asked; and if they are right, they had simple kindergarten type answers. “Why would a returning officer, or for that matter a presiding officer, fail or neglect to append his signature to a document whose contents, he or she has generated?” The five Returning Officers elected not to sign results forms lest the documents be smudged with the wet ink on the pinkie, put there to prevent double voting. PUZZLED Again, the judges were puzzled that of the 290 Forms 34B that were used to declare the final results, security features on 56 of them had disappeared. Wear and tear, and the elements: the forms might have question marks, but the numbers are as real as the voters who cast them. Printing is an inexact science, as the errata and corrigenda in all textbooks bears witness. The security features enumerated in the affidavit of elections director Immaculate Kassait only complement lawyer Paul Muite’s assertion that IEBC printed results forms the way they did out of an abundance of caution. The judges kept scratching their heads over why IEBC could not supply all the Forms 34 B upon declaration of results, or days later if they had indeed been electronically transmitted to the National Tallying Centre at the Bomas of Kenya. How they arrived is not important, especially if everyone could just appreciate the miracle of their physical arrival ahead of their electronically transmitted cousins. BOMAS OF KENYA A simple explanation is that the forms travelling by land, sea and air, arrived tired and headed straight into the private parlour at Bomas of Kenya for oil, powder and feather massage. Results, being the will of the people, could not be indecently exposed by wind in their skirts before being dressed respectably. Judges appear to have been deeply hurt by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission’s hesitation in obeying its orders on granting access to its computer servers and system logs, and made much of the fact that read-only privileges were granted only two hours to the closure of court proceedings. Article 49 (1)d of the Constitution gives every person the right not to be compelled to make any confession or admission that could be used in evidence against them. Taking time to understand whether or not a court order is legal in the first place, and if obeying it can lead to self-incrimination cannot be regarded as “contumacious disobedience”. POOR NETWORK The judges failed to extent any trust to the custodians of the will of the people, so that when IEBC said its tablets could not transmit a 74 kilobyte image because of poor network, it was disbelieved. Instead of asking if the election “numbers are themselves a product, not of the expression of the free and sovereign will of the people, but of the many unanswered questions with which we are faced”, the judges should just have ordered that the contestants meet in an open stadium with all the ballot boxes to recount the votes. It is clear why the Supreme Court needs urgent fixing. Its annoying questions have so angered the public that retiring and reticent members of the business community were recently provoked to show themselves in their full dreadlocked glory, mouthing incantations in the language of money: Thaai thathaiya Ngai thaai!  The writer is a Programme Advisor, Journalists for Justice. The views expressed here are his own and do not reflect those of JFJ. kwamchetsi@formandcontent.co.ke  