The season of heavenly blessings and romancing with the traditional Dandia Raas dancing this year also brought our way a special boon – a unique theatrical experience that was not only entertaining and enlightening but one that also spread riveting spiritual vibes. Yugpurush – Mahatama’s Mahatama, the internationally and critically acclaimed and award winning theatre fare was presented by Shree Sthanakvasi Jain Sang at the Oshwal Centre Auditorium last week. The play was all about Mahatma Gandhi and his spiritual mentor. We know the Mahatma as an apostle of non-violence and a great freedom fighter and political icon but as the play unfolded we came face to face with the reality of internal and external journey under the influence of his spiritual master and mentor Shrimad Rajchandraji. The playwright Uttam Gada and director Rajesh Joshi have rather skillfully presented episodes from Gandhi’s autobiography and his meetings with the spiritual master and highlighted the sacred values of Ahimsa and Satya – non-violence and truth. The spiritual bond that existed between the two masters and their interaction which led Gandhiji to the path of non-violence and celibacy is brought to life with clever theatrics and enchanting musical score by the Sachin Jigar duo. The Indian group of thespians were very much at home enacting the Mahatmas and creating an aura of profound relationship between the two great souls to the delight of audience. The soulful theatre fare is in Kenya courtesy of Shrimad Rajchandra Mission Dharampur in commemoration of the spiritual mentor’s 150th birth anniversary. The players are in Mombasa this weekend for a couple of shows there. The proceeds from the shows are set to be utilised in the construction of Sthanakvasi Jain Sangh Centre in Nairobi and also to assist charitable hospital projects in Dharampur, India. After the soulful experience and the nine nights of reverence and dancing, the faithful celebrated Dushera or Vijayadashmi at SSD Temple grounds last evening.   