The man from Busia has hit Makerere with the force of a tingatinga — oops — well, a steam-roller. I told you about him, Prof Barnabas Nawangwe, the new Vice-Chancellor there. Within less than a month of taking charge, he is shaking the old place down to its foundations.  Most startlingly, Nawangwe has presided over the cancellation of nearly 70 ‘degrees,’ suspected to have been fraudulently obtained from the institution in the last 10 years. Apparently, this is a matter that has been close to his heart since he headed a committee that investigated academic fraud at Makerere in 2007. There might have been some foot-dragging about the matter then, but he is vigorously and emphatically reviving it now that he is in power. But, as the Waswahili say, if you are marvelling at the wonders of Moses, (wait till) you see those of the Pharaoh. This is obviously an allusion to the Egyptian wonder-working contests in the Holy Scriptures. Anyway, while East Africa’s oldest and most prestigious institution of higher learning is rattling to its foundations, Britain’s oldest is also in the middle of a bizarre crisis. Apparently, students at Cambridge University can hardly write. This is in the simple, raw sense of using pen and paper to create handwriting. The Cambridge students are finding it increasingly difficult to produce legible handwriting. Their teachers and examiners can hardly decipher their scrawls in examination answer booklets. The situation is so desperate that Cambridge is considering the abolition of an 800-year tradition requiring students to submit their examination answers in handwriting. The “illiterate” students, it is suggested, might as well be permitted to take their laptops into the examination rooms and “process” their answers. Incidentally, Cambridge is not alone in this. Education Professor Dai Hounsell of Edinburgh University, Scotland’s premier institution, where Mwalimu Nyerere studied after Makerere, told the media in 2011 that they were trying to introduce the same procedure. Even more relevantly, at Harvard University, where Barack and Michelle Obama went,  Prof Eric Mazur encourages his students to take their laptops and smart phones into the examination rooms. You know, of course, that Harvard is situated in Cambridge, Massachusetts, named in honour of the old Cambridge, with which we started. Three obvious questions are raised by this development. First, why and how has this “need” to take laptops and other “apps” into examination rooms arisen? Second, if Cambridge, Edinburgh and Harvard are doing it, should we not also be doing it at UoN, KU or Makerere? The third and most important question is “begged” by the second. Is the “digitalisation” of our university examination rooms really feasible in our current environment? As to why university students are becoming increasingly incapable of producing legible handwriting, the “laptop” advocates are quite open and frank. Cambridge’s Sarah Pearsall points out that the problem is that their students “write virtually nothing by hand except exams”. Obviously, if they do not practise handwriting, they cannot miraculously do it in the examination room. As Professor Hounsell of Edinburgh puts it, the students are “not physiologically used to extended bouts of writing by hand, and structuring essays on paper presented a different mental challenge to writing on a computer”. In other words, the increasing use of computers is making handwriting an unnecessary and dying skill. Those who want some more insight into these developments should revisit the work of Walter Ong, especially his Literacy and Orality: the Technologizing of the Word. Ong’s awareness of operations like speech, writing and printing as aspects of the technologizing process of verbal communication is perceptively accurate. Thus computer word processing may be regarded as “secondary literacy”, just as sound recording and broadcasting may be regarded, in Ong’s terminology, as “secondary orality”. The Cambridge students may not be particularly orate or literate, but they appear to be “digitalate”.  Incidentally, instead of those Cambridge students writing their examination answers on computers, why can’t they simply speak them into sound recorders, or before examiners’ panels? Maybe the problem here is that the poor student might be just as “inorate” (unable to speak) as they are illiterate. But seriously, I have long felt that every university examination should have an oral or “viva voce” component, for two main reasons. First, it would help ensure that every candidate is physically identified and heard, thus reducing impersonation. Secondly, and more importantly, I believe that a candidate who cannot speak articulately about his or her subject is not properly educated, regardless of how good his or her writing is. As for the resort to computers and smartphones, even if the logistics could be overcome, the step would be a dubious adventure in our institutions. Already, as things are, ICT is a very mixed bag of blessings and curses. While it enables phenomenal access to information and data, its incompetent or dishonest use has turned out to be a bane to original scholarship. The rampant spread of plagiarism, academic theft, is one well-known example. It is no secret in academic circles that many dissertations for higher degrees are “cut-and-paste” jobs from the internet. You might have heard of the German minister who was stripped of his law doctorate at Bayreuth when he was caught out in such a cheating attempt. In Kampala backstreets and elsewhere in East Africa, there are “coursework essay bureaux”, where, for a fee, smart “ghosts” can easily churn out any kind of essay for you, or even a dissertation! Add to that the manipulability of ICT systems, and the questions about it suitability in the earliest stages of examinations multiply exponentially. Indeed, it was the corrupt manipulation of digital examination records in the Academic Registrar’s Department that triggered the Makerere inquisition. Anyway, Makerere seems to be leading the way by shining a torch on itself and starting to clean its act. Can any of us in the younger universities afford to sit complacently back and say we are all right, pull up the ladder?   Prof Bukenya is a leading scholar of English and Literature in East Africa. abubwase@yahoo.com 
 