Former TV host of the just concluded lottery game show, Shinda Washinde, is set to launch a new web series. The show which will be produced by Arimus Media and will start streaming every Friday starting 22nd September 2017.Emily Manjeru, who co-hosted the show alongside comedian Jalang o (Phelix Odiwuor) is set to launch a beauty make over show dubbed The Glam Show.The Glam Show will feature regularly dressed women of different ages and body types receiving a style make over. It will also offer easy do-it-yourself tips aimed at improving grooming tips to its audience.Ms Manjeru told ActScene that she was excited at the production of the show, adding that there was a lot that women could do to look fabulous, if they understood what to wear, or how to groom on a budget. I am happy that we re launching Glam, which not only gives regularly dressed women jaw-dropping make overs, but also helps them understand their body types better and flaunt their best assets, she said. Truth be told not all of us can afford haute couture gown. Arimus Media Limited Executive Director and Glam s executive producer Julie Gichuru told ActScene that the show will bring more knowledge and refinement on grooming and presentation options, regardless of budget. Glam is a transformative show, intended to build knowledge on presentation and grooming and ensure women have tips on affordable options, she added. Glam is so different! I like to have fun in everything I do, so here I get to walk a beauty journey every week with fellow women, tips that men too can use. We all have a grooming challenge, which I hope I can address, she added.Manjeru has also been a voice-over artiste for Always Ultra pads and PSI Condoms and tried her hand at acting as a nurse in One Goal feature film which aired during the opening ceremony of the World Cup in 2010, and as an extra on Changing Times on KTN. Soon, she will be featured as an ER nurse in the feature film 18 Hours which will be released in October 2017. email print email print