Mr Ambrose Rachier, I do respect you. You have done great for this mighty club.But today, I will tell you I am disappointed in you.For some time, there have been stories about pilferage at the club, especially on the gate collections.However, that has never been confirmed until last week when the Kenyan Premier League wrote a letter to you asking you to take action on some of your colleagues in the office who apparently pocketed gate collection in a league match.Mr Ambrose Rachier, I know you are not the kind of person who can reduce himself to steal from the club coffers, in any case, you have sacrificed so much to bring back Gor Mahia to where it initially belonged, at the top. But unfortunately, we have a bunch of officials sitting in your office who have come in to enrich themselves at the club.While I praise your leadership at the club Jaduong Rachier, you have failed in some areas and KPL has finally confirmed that we have issues in the management of our ticketing or just how gate collection is handled.Gor Mahia is a big club with huge following yet the sad thing is we do not have any income or investment.When we lined up to re-elect you last December, it was on the premise that you will take this great club to another level. Sadly you have not. Ambrose Rachier, you have severally promised up you will build a stadium for the club and a club house, we are still waiting to see that.We expected to see a better way of handling ticketing but it is the same old story. LOCKED OUT OF TRAINING GROUPThe worst part of it all is that stories of the team being locked out of training grounds are still cropping up. Ambrose Rachier, you are letting me down.In February next year we will be celebrating 50 years of existence. We are the second oldest club in Kenya after our perpetually relegation-threatened in-laws AFC Leopards yet apart from the 15 against 12 titles we have won compared to them, there is nothing to write home between them and us, we are the same in all other aspects - disorganised.As we head towards our 50th anniversary, I can only request Mr Rachier, we need to make Gor Mahia greater. We need to turn this club to a professional outfit to match its peers like Manchester United, Barcelona, Real Madrid and maybe Esperance (closer to us). On December 5, we will be celebrating 30 years since we became the first club in east and central Africa region to win a continental title, but is there anything to show from that success? Mr Rachier, the ball is in your court email print email print This was a game Gor Mahia should have lost heavily, but escaped with a 1-1 draw.