Heaven is like a wedding banquet. It’s a fountain of water that never runs dry. It’s a house with many rooms, which God has built for his children. It’s a garden with all kinds of trees bearing all kinds of delicious fruit. It’s a city with buildings made of jewels and streets paved with gold. These are the phrases Jesus used, and yet heaven is more. After a vision of heaven, St Paul said he experienced things that “must not and cannot be put into words.” Hell is like garbage dump, a lake of fire, a hole so deep and so dark that no one can see. It’s like being locked outside of your home, knowing you will never enter because the door will never be opened. It’s a place where you are tortured with a worm inside that gnaws at your guts and makes you grind your teeth in pain. Again, these phrases come from Jesus, and yet the saints who have seen hell tells us that it’s much worse than any evil anyone has ever endured in this world. There’s always someone bright enough to ask: “How can it be completely dark in hell if there’s fire?” I always say: “That’s an excellent question!” To answer, I begin by asking them a question: What if you had to explain to a man born blind what it means to see colours? You can’t tell them to look around. They’re blind. You have to start with something they know — something they can hear, touch or smell. This is what I would say a man born blind. “Black is the one colour you know. You see it all the time. So start by thinking of black as something dry. White is like rain. Red is like a trumpet blast that wakes you up. Green is like a thick blanket that keeps you warm on a cold day. Blue is like the calm voice of a friend who makes you feel safe and secure.” This is the same problem Jesus had when explaining what happens after we die. He had to use things we know to explain things we cannot see. So heaven is all those things that Jesus said, but much better; and hell is all those things Jesus said but much worse. That is why the Bible says: “Eye has not seen and ear has not heard, nor has it ever entered into the mind of man, the things that God has prepared for those who love him.” Heaven is all about love. Hell is all about hatred. You end up in heaven if you spend your life helping other people to be happy when it means going out of your way to help them. You end up in hell if you spend your life being selfish, never sharing your food and never doing anything to help people who are suffering.  jbabendreier@yahoo.co.uk   