At only 25, Alex Kinyanjui is a single dad, choreographer, tele-counsellor and a post-graduate student at the University of Nairobi pursing a Master’s degree in Health Psychology. He speaks animatedly with a twinkle in his eye, his neatly held dreadlocks bouncing gently with his every gesture. While he appears to be enveloped in a high-energy bubble, there is a mystical quietness in his voice that evokes trust. One feels compelled to let down their guard around him. “I wear many hats, but they all revolve around fatherhood. Nothing scares me like the thought of not being able to provide for my daughter. She inspires my ambition. When I see how she looks at me, as though I am a superhero, I get new resolve to keep striving for better.” OVERWHELMED WITH GRIEF Nipher, Alex’s daughter, was born two years ago. At the time, Alex was a fourth year student at Moi University studying a degree in Psychology. Although they had not planned for it, Alex and his girlfriend, Esther, welcomed the news with great enthusiasm. They loved each other deeply and the baby completed this love. In a tragic turn of events, Nipher’s mom developed some complications barely five weeks after delivery and passed on.   “I was overwhelmed with grief. However, both my family and hers plus our friends stood by me diligently. Their support and prayers cushioned Nipher and me against the tough blow of fate. In June this year, my baby turned two and more than thirty people turned up for her birthday party in Kilifi. I am indebted to them for making my little girl feel like the princess she is.” BORN IN MATHARE Alex is the first born in a family of four children. He was born in Mathare, Nairobi but the family kept shifting from one place to another due to rampant insecurity in the hood. They finally settled in Baba Dogo when he was around 10 years old. Growing up in the hood had its pros and cons. The biggest disadvantage was exposure to drugs and crime that was predominantly the way of life for a sizeable part of the population. On the flip side, Alex never lacked playmates. He had so many age mates in the hood and they spent endless hours playing football and being cheeky. He vividly recalls being caned thoroughly by his father for skipping school to go and play football. He was very upset about the thrashing and decided to run away from home. He fled to the city centre and joined street urchins in scavenging food from dustbins behind the priest quarters at Holy Family Basilica. One his sixth day in the streets, he was caught by Father Ngugi, who knew Alex and his family as they were members of the congregation at Holy Family Basilica where he was a priest, while rummaging from the dustbins and was taken straight home. What ensued can best be left to your imagination. LOVED MUSIC AND DANCING Alex loved music and dancing ever since he was a little boy. His cousin, Martha Wambui, 13, at the time, would pester six-year-old Alex for dance lessons. His agility and fluidity in body movement, evident even as he played football with his peers, was the earliest sign of his skill as a dancer. “When I was in form three, donors came to Mathare to launch Mathare Youth Sports Association (MYSA) tournament. I offered to entertain the guests with a dance. I performed the Kamaveka dance- a traditional Luhya dance that involves shaking one’s shoulder to the rhythm of the drumbeats- all alone despite it being a group dance. For a full five minutes, I danced like a lone chicken as the tickled audience cheered me on. After my performance, I was paid Sh 500. I couldn’t believe it!” That was the beginning of Alex’s journey as a dancer and later choreographer. He started the Mopotoliko Tobango movement (loosely translates to hot stuff) with an avid presence at Zetech University, Precious Blood Riruta, Katwanyaa Primary school inTala, Kangaru School in Embu and many other places. He trains in modern dance such as ballet, jazz and hip-hop and also traditional dances such as the Borana dance.   In April, his team from Zetech University bagged the national trophy during the Drama and music festivals. He was awarded the Best Choreographer in Kenya this year, a title he has defended for the past two years in the same festival. Alex attributes his success in choreography to Caroline Slot (Ghetto Exposed Foundation) who mentored him back in 2011 as he underwent training in modern dance. Alex trains in two seasons: January to April he trains contemporary/ modern dance and May to August the traditional dances. Each season fetches him approximately Sh 100,000 to Sh 200,000 depending on the complexity of the dance. From September to December, Alex trains passionate dancers from underprivileged backgrounds pro-bono. He is assisted by one of his trainees, Daddy the Dancer, who he met online. “Psychology is my calling, not just a salaried job. I love interacting with people from all walks of life. As a tele-counsellor at Liverpool Voluntary Counselling and Testing (LVCT) I get to fulfill this calling. In my line of work, I have people rising up from the lowest of lows and rising to become an inspiration to thousands. Their courage is an absolute marvel.”   COUNSELLED CHILDREN WITH AUTISM Alex counselled children with autism at Kaizora Institute during his field attachment. He continues to engage with autistic kids in the hood, teaching them basic tasks such as brushing teeth and playing with them. He has taken an interest in contemporary psychology practices such as dance and music therapy especially for autism patients and hopes to pursue this in future. “There was a guy called Moki Saka back in the hood where I grew up. He would unblock the trenches to prevent flooding during heavy rains. Sometimes he mobilised the youth for clean-up exercises. Of course all the dirt and blockage would be back in a week. Nevertheless, he would do all over again. He was full of income generating ideas for youths of the hood and even started a car wash business. Moki had nothing much but he still gave back to the community. He remains my sole inspiration to date.”  Do you have feedback on this story? E-mail: lifeandstyle@ke.nationmedia.com `   Abigail, 19, is an avid internet user who, unlike many of her peers, makes money while at it.