Sirisia MP John Waluke has defended the visit to State House by a section of leaders from western Kenya, denying claims that they "were mere job seekers". Addressing journalists on Monday during a National Youth Council meeting in Nairobi, Mr Waluke said the leaders went to seek development opportunities for the region which has been lagging behind. “We cannot let the country be led in a tribal manner and that certain people cannot go to the State House," he said The lawmaker also added that the leaders went there to talk to President Kenyatta on western Kenya development issues in particular and the country at large. CONSOLIDATE VOTES He denied reports that those who paid President Kenyatta a visit were only election losers, saying that even elected leaders from western were present and the aim was to consolidate more support for the president ahead of the repeat poll on October 17, 2017. “We are trying to consolidate votes in western for Kenyatta and that is why you saw Cyrus Jirongo, Paul Otuoma and Moses Akaranga there.” The lawmaker pointed out that even leaders from the opposition coalition Nasa have been visiting State House, albeit at night. “Even those in Nasa go there but they do it at night so that they are not seen whilst we go during the day,” he said. GOVERNMENT POSITIONS Mr Waluke said associating with the government had brought immense development to the region which had been trailing for more than 40 years. He noted that so far the president has also given leaders from the region plum positions in government. “The president is still seeking re-election but has already given Ken Lusaka and Ben Washiali jobs," he said adding that even he ( Waluke) will be in the Parliamentary Service Commission He added: " We as the Luhya community are grateful to the president and his deputy." MORE VOTES The Sirisia MP said development in water, infrastructure and social amenities in the region had materialised as a result of associating with the government, adding that President Kenyatta's government has done a lot in only four years than what Mr Odinga did as the Prime Minister Mr Waluke was also optimistic that western Kenya will deliver more votes to Jubilee than it did on August 8. He brushed aside claims that the region is a Nasa zone while alleging that the opposition flag bearer Mr Odinga is just "looking for a caretaker government and will not accept defeat in the forthcoming polls". “They said western was a Nasa zone but we delivered many seats to Jubilee as a proof that that was not the case," he said. DRUM SUPPORT Meanwhile, the 47 youth chairmen drawn from the 47 counties in the country agreed to drum up support for the re-election of President Kenyatta because of his "commitment to the youth agenda in the country through various projects like youth fund, affirmative actions, free schooling programme among other interventions." “We are fully convinced that only President Kenyatta has demonstrated unquestionable commitment to the youth agenda in this country and we plan to do a door to door campaign to deliver the majority of the 9.9 million youth votes,” said Dishon Atemo, the National Youth Council Chairman.  