Nairobi County has increased it’s revenue by more than 100 per cent in two days following automation of revenue collection. Governor Mike Sonko on Tuesday announced that collection has reached 38.2 million since the automation at the cash office. The office used to bank Sh7 million daily before automation. READ: Nairobi finance staff charged after Sonko complaint JAMBOPAY The county has stopped use of cash in any transaction and residents have been directed to pay for services electronically after City Hall moved to seal revenue leakages. At the cash office, JamboPay, a company that provides e-payment platform, has taken over and all revenue is being paid through the automated systems. “After spending several hours at the cash office instructing taxpayers to be paying directly to the bank in case there was a system failure, we have managed to collect a record Sh38.2 million. "This is only from the 14 revenue streams that have been digitised, out of over 136 revenue streams,” Mr Sonko said. E-PAYMENTThe governor said in a statement that from an average Sh7 million that used to be declared a week ago, the sting operation he had led had resulted in a sustained increase in daily collections. From the day he and his deputy Polycarp Igathe raided the cash office and found Sh7 million unbanked, revenue has gone up to Sh14 million. Residents have also been encouraged to pay through mobile money, which reflects on the EjijiPay platforms. On Monday, Mr Sonko said more than 2,061 vehicles failed to pay parking fees, leading to loss of revenue. PARKING FEE On Tuesday, motorists were surprised after parking attendants declined to take cash, directing them to the e-platform. Head of parking at City Hall, Fredrick Ndunyu, said attendants will no longer handle cash. “The parking attendants had a wallet through which they would pay for the motorists and in the evening they would reconcile their accounts in the office. "Now the motorists will have to do it themselves as we are going paperless,” Mr Ndunyu said. CORRUPTIONHe added that all revenue streams would be automated in efforts meant to reduce corruption. The city, he said, loses around Sh18 million to corrupt dealings between parking attendants and motorists every month. JamboPay CEO Danson Muchemi said the county has given them a go ahead to set up machines at the cash office and also create accounts for the more than 120 remaining revenue sources. Mr Muchemi said the parking platform was not fully utilising the service as the enforcement team was reluctant to allow full use of the system. Only 14,172 motorists out of 30,497 paid for parking between July 10 and 23.  