The battle for supremacy is threatening to tear apart Jubilee Party in Taita Taveta County ahead of repeat presidential polls slated for October 26. Some elected leaders and losers in the August 8 General Election are fighting over who should spearhead the team for President Uhuru Kenyatta's re-election. The leaders are also divided over campaign funds with some complaining that the money is ending up in the pockets of selfish leaders who are only interested in enriching themselves at the expense of the party . "There are staunch Jubilee supporters in the county who are confused on how to undertake the campaigns without funds yet the concerned leaders are silent on this issue," County Jubilee Youth League Chairman Hezron Mwashighadi said. CAMPAIGN He said some officials within the county have pocketed campaign money but have failed to mobilise support for the party. The youth leader called for top Jubilee leaders to come up with a structured system through which campaign funds could be disbursed to clear the suspicion dogging the governing party at the moment. Mr Mwashighadi also lamented that the party has given priority to poll losers in the last elections who will not add any value to the party. "Unless Jubilee party puts its house in order in the short period left before the repeat polls, the results may be as dismal as it was in the August polls, the votes might reduce instead," he said In the August polls, National Super Alliance presidential candidate Raila Odinga garnered 79,832 votes representing 70.94 per cent against Kenyatta’s 31,158 votes representing 27.69 per cent. DELEGATIONS The youth leader lamented that Jubilee leaders from other counties have been organising delegations to State House to strategise on party issues but none from the county has been invited over the same. "These funds being dished out to these leaders are they individual tokens or official campaign funds? The funds are hardly used for the intended purpose ," he said. A lobby group that is also supporting President Kenyatta's re-election alleged that some Jubilee leaders in the county are secretly holding meetings in posh hotels but the agenda of these meetings is never made known to the party supporters. The group’s secretary Mnjala Mwaluma urged Jubilee leadership to do away with losers who have nothing new to offer for the party in the county if it is to gain prominence. CONCERNS "If the party leadership would not heed our calls and address these concerns I am afraid the results might not be pleasant," he said He dismissed the perception that Jubilee Party is a hard sell in the county pointing out that it was a few unpopular leaders who were giving the party a bad image. Mr Mnjala asked Jubilee Secretary General Raphael Tuju to visit the county and meet its leadership to iron out the thorny issues in the party before it is too late. "Jubilee administration has carried out numerous development projects in the county and we cannot allow a few selfish individuals to undo the gains the government has done for us," he said The lobby group has endorsed Mr Kenyatta's re-election saying he had initiated development projects and also settled squatters in the county.  