From tear-jerking romantic dramas, action-packed heist movies, reboots, romantic comedies to thrillers, Bollywood hardly ever disappoints. Bollywood rom-coms, action-packed heist frenzies, spectacular action choreographies and scintillating dance moves are always showing in various cinemas in Kenyan cinemas, namely: Century Cinemax IMAX, Garden City, Anga Sky Cinema, Fox Cineplex Sarit and Nyali Cinemax in Mombasa. Of course, even the serial bootlegger is probably peddling the same in neighbourhood movie shop corners across the nation. Indian big screen has never had a dull moment. For instance, if you challenged your logic with Indecent Proposal back in the day, you will agree that in the film, love tests desire and need and somehow triumphs in the end. Such is the plot in Judaai (Separation) a 1997 Hindi film that parallels the 1993 Adrian Lyne Hollywood masterpiece. While David (Woody Harrelson) agrees for a million dollars to give his wife (Demi Moore) to a billionaire (Robert Redford) for a night, Kajal (Sridevi) gives up her husband (Anil Kapoor) for 2 Crore (approximately 20 Million Rupees) to Jahnvi (Urmila Matondkar), a rich girl who has fallen in love with Kajal’s husband and ready to marry him by hook or crook. In the end, a clear line between mammon and happiness is drawn. A hysterical Kajal gives up all her money and new wealth to charity, exactly what David does. Apart from the solid performances from Hindi film's best, particularly Sridevi (arguably India's most prolific actress of all time) known for sharp comic timing, evocative body language, passionate and teary when she has to be and amazingly seductive in a sari. Indecent Proposal might have an ending that is a tad unsatisfactory but not the Bollywood version, Judaai. The Indywood romantic packs a rather obvious ending you are very glad about if you have bought into Sridevi’s disturbing suicidal hysteria, characterised by hot Hindi melodrama and teary finale that tests the constitution of any person with icy tear glands. Hot and fresh, these Bollywood films are the perfect plot for a dowdy weekend if drama, action and fabulous acting are entries in a movie menu you would not mind. BAADSHAHO (2017) In 1975, India was at the heart of a ghastly and divisive political upheaval. The recently concluded war with Pakistan, compounded by a drought and the oil crisis of 1973 had put the country in a terrible shape economically. The proclamation of emergency had been done citing national security threats. Baadshaho is set in such a perilous period. The heist thriller brings together a star-studded cast featuring Ajay Devgn and Ileana D’Cruz. Undeclared gold cargo belonging to Rani Gitanjali is seized by the government and being transported by road from Jaipur to New Delhi. Such wealth and the irresistible allure that follows it is fodder for a superbly done thriller with gratifying action sequences and injections of banter, drama, deceit and betrayal. SHUBH MANGAL SAVDHAN (2017) Mudit is engaged to Sugandha in an arranged marriage. Their extended families are ecstatic about it like everyone else. With marriage comes consummation but the erectile dysfunctional Mudit could become the laughing stock of the two extended families and a disappointment as would be expected. Mudit’s friends are more than ready to help. Like it’s so common in Kenya today, there is always a quack ready to help a brother deal with erectile feebleness and Mudit’s friends’ advice sets the film rolling. This is Ayushmann Khurrana (Mudit) second take on infertility after his critically acclaimed performance in the 2012 romantic comedy Vicky Donor, as a highly performing healthy sperm donor who falls in love and has to deal with his secret, frowned-upon-clandestine escapade that pays very well. TOILET: EK PREM KATHA (2017) It is hard to believe a financially successful film can come out of emission of bodily excreta and toilets. Starring Akshay Kumar, the prolific Indian actor Anupam Kher and the dazzling Bhumi Pednekar, social taboos will be broken and toilets made in a powerful social picture that will see corrupt politicians, dreary administration and superstitious villagers collide. A wife will seek divorce in court due to toilet unavailability and the improvement of sanitation will save a man in love. The film is based on the true story of Anita Narre who was awarded $10,000 for leaving her marital home due to lack of a household toilet. She only returned once the facility was constructed. In 2010, a study by the UN reported that mobile phone access in India was more than toilet access with only 366 million out of a population of 1.2 billion having access to apposite sanitation. BAREILLY KI BARFI (2017) Ayushmann Khurrana stars in this Indian box office successful rom-com flick that also features strong performance from Rajkummar Rao and Kriti Sanon. It’s the story of a free-spirited girl who is audacious enough to lie she is not a virgin in a closeted society to kill a marriage proposal, which irritates her parents, especially the mother. She feels misunderstood, pressured and a misfit who wants a suitor who understands her for who she is. Angry with the state of affairs, she buys a book and takes a train to anywhere as far as it’s away from her hometown. On reading the engrossing book Bareilly Ki Barfi, she finds the author describing her confusion with the feelings of the protagonist female mirroring her life and situation. She returns home and embarks on a journey to find the author in an expedition that should be a reminder to all of us that sometimes what you are earnestly looking for is right there with you. MUBARAKAN (2017) Arjun Kapoor, Anil Kapoor, Athiya Shetty and Ileana D'Cruz come together in a romantic comedy exploring the insatiable, complex emotion of love that Bollywood does effortlessly without breaking a sweat. Charan is a Punjab raised, honest, principled and unpretentious twin to Karan, gaudy, calculating and street-smart brought up in London. Three girls, polar opposite twins, family interference, bright sets, eccentric uncle, burlesque humour coalesce in a palpitating climax as each twin fights to marry the girl he loves.  