Nation journalist Julliet Mutegi who died on Saturday was laid to rest at Kamitaa Village in Embu County on Saturday. In Murang’a County, the mother of Nation production editor Joe Mugweru Mbuthia was buried in a ceremony attended by Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua. At Buwong’i Village in Funyula Constituency, Busia County, the mother of Nation opinion editor John Agunda, Mama Magdaline Akochi Agunda, was laid to rest in an emotional ceremony attended by hundreds of mourners. In Embu, Ms Mutegi who was 34 at the time of her death was eulogised as social and hardworking. Her sister Jessica Gatakaa said she died peacefully. “She died surrounded by family members. We are still trying to come to terms with her death,” she said BRAVE Saturday Nation managing editor Ng’ang’a Mbugua said Ms Mutegi never shied away from confronting anyone she believed had mishandled an assignment she was working on. READ: Julliet Mutegi: A golden heart under a steel exterior READ: Ode to feisty, fiery Nation journalist Julliet Mutegi “She never shied away from expressing her opinion as long as she believed she was on the right,” Mr Mbugua told the hundreds of mourners. “Julliet made friends in her career and whenever she disagreed with anyone, she always made peace.” He said the Nation Online sub-editor always carried her assignments diligently and sought more challenging duties. Family spokesman David Mbaka said Ms Mutegi aired her opinion, especially if she felt her rights had been trampled on. REPEAT CLASS “She was no pushover. She was once forced to repeat class in Form Three because she was deemed too young to proceed to Form Four,” Mr Mbaka said. “She transferred from the school and passed her national examinations with flying colours.” Julliet is survived by father Phineas Mutegi, mother Priscilla Ciamwari, two sisters and a brother. Ms Mutegi joined the Nation Media Group from Safaricom in 2013. During service for Mama Veronica Wairimu Mbuthia at Our Lady of Consolata Kiriaini Catholic church, Governor Mutua described her as a brave and generous woman who promoted education and development. The funeral was attended by hundreds of mourners and Nation employees.  