The name David Chumba elicits feelings of fear and respect in equal measure around the University of Eastern Africa at Baraton in Nandi County. Nicknamed 'Manyoka', coined from the Kiswahili word nyoka (meaning snake) Chumba, who previously worked as a cook at the university, is now the institution’s snake handler. CAPTURED MORE THAN 300 SNAKES Chumba’s made the career switch in 2003, when a group of Filipino students at the university’s Department of Biological Sciences sought to study snakes, and the university needed a full-time snake handler — a job he had been doing part-time — so it hired him. “I accompanied the Filipino students on snake hunting missions in different forests in East Africa. I felt truly appreciated and my passion became a full-time job,” he says. Chumba has captured more than 300 snakes of different species, as well as other wild animals like baboons and monkeys. Manyoka’s work involves capturing snakes, identifying them, selecting unique ones for the university’s snake park and feeding and watering them. Among the snakes he has captured are the highly venomous black mamba and Jameson’s mamba. “A Jameson’s mamba bite can kill a man or animal in 20 minutes,” he explains. The snakes in the park include a black mamba he got from Kilifi District, a boomslang from the South Coast, a rock python from Baringo District, a rhinoceros viper from Nandi North Forest and a gaboon viper from Kakamega  Forest. He knows the snakes at the park by their local, scientific and English names, a skill he has acquired thanks to years of experience, as well as his personal effort to educate himself. “I can name every snake, tell its age, and the number of years it has been at this park,” he says. In his zeal to learn more about snakes, Chumba lived with the Ndorobo, who inhabit in the Mau Forest, for six years. CHALLENGES But the job is not without challenges, and Chumba singled out is milking the reptiles as the most tedious and dangerous. Notably, Chumba, a Form Two drop-out, has no formal training in handling snakes. He said he has always been fascinated by snakes and first handled one when he was a pupil at Kapkangani Primary School in Nandi County. “I had no protection. I held the snake by the head and tail and used a small stick to keep its head away from me, he says. But despite his expertise, Manyoka has suffered snake bites. He showed DN2 10 scars on his hands and legs, which he says were inflicted by the reptiles. Interestingly, he said he used only local herbs to treat the bites. “I have survived snake bites by the grace of God,” he adds. Chumba boasts that he enjoys great job security. “My job is special, unique and there’s no competition, which makes me love it even more,” he says with a smile. Occasionally, the people of Chesumei around Baraton University seek his services. “The local residents seek my assistance in smoking out snakes that have strayed into their homes. I help them, sometimes for a small fee, and release the snakes back into the wild,” he offers. Chumba has crisscrossed forests in Nandi North and South as well as Kakamega in western Kenya in an effort to return “lost” snakes to their habitat. Chumba was born in Kombe Village in Nandi County in 1962 and attended Kapkangani Primary School from 1971 to 1979. He joined Kiborgok Secondary School in 1980 but dropped out in 1982 for lack of school fees. He then joined Kaptel Youth Polytechnic but dropped out to try his hand at masonry, which he abandoned to take up snake handling. Married with eight children, Chumba says his job pays him enough to live on: “I know some people dread, or even hate, my job, but to me it is a blessing because it ensures my family is well fed, housed and educated.” SUCCESSOR IN THE MAKING Chumba already has a potential successor, with one of his four sons, Obed Kipchumba, following in his footsteps.“My son has already captured 20 poisonous snakes and milked two,” he says with pride. So enthusiastic is Chumba about his job that he is not planning to retire any time soon. In fact, he is looking for financial sponsorship to enable him to learn enhance his skills in handling snakes. In addition, he is looking to acquire modern snake handling equipment. On the side, Chumba raises rabbits which he feeds to the snakes. He says his career has affected his social life thanks to the negative perception that people who handle snakes are witches. However, he adds that he understands their thinking and calls for more sensitisation to the role of snakes in the ecosystem. “Snakes should not be feared; they are very docile and attack only when threatened. I also would like to demystify the myth that snake handlers are witches,” he says. Interestingly, Chumba has become the subject of the local children’s jokes and nightmares. Whenever they see him they run away screaming “Manyoka!”  