Kenya will play their opening match of the 2018 ICC Africa Women’s World Twenty20 qualifiers against Tanzania on Friday at the Wanderers Club in Windhoek, Namibia. Five teams - Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, Zimbabwe and hosts Namibia - will fight it out for the sole slot reserved for the continent in the global Women’s World Twenty20 Qualifiers. The 2018 Women’s World Twenty20 Championship will be hosted by the West Indies from September 2 to 25. Kenya’s squad in Namibia is captained by Margret Banja and coached by Banja’s elder brother, Lameck Onyango. Lydia Kaparo has travelled as team manager. Banja will spearhead batting attack with Queentor Aoko. The other batswomen are Sarah Bhakita, an all-rounder, who is one of the most experienced players in the side, Mary Wambui, Sylvia Kinyua, Veronica Abuga, Esther Wangari and Ruth Achando. Bhatika will lead the bowling attack with Aoko, Wambui, Wangari and Faith Mwende. On their way to Namibia, the lasses stopped over in South Africa where they played four friendly matches against Northerns side that beat them 3-1 at the Pretoria High Performance Centre. Before the girls left for South Africa, they had taken part in an East African Regional quadrangular tournament at the Sir Ali Muslim Club that involved Uganda, Rwanda and two Kenyan sides, as part of their preparations for Namibia event. Zimbabwean women’s team has dominated the continental qualifiers. They represented Africa in the inaugural Women’s Global World Twenty20 Qualifies in 2013 in Dublin, Ireland, where they finished sixth. In the 2015 Global Women’s World Twenty20 Qualifiers in Bangkok, Thailand, Zimbabwe finished in third position. Full squad: Margaret Banja (Captain), Mary Wambui, Queentor Abel, Sylvia Kinyua, Veronica Abuga, Sarah Bhakita, Venasa Adhiambo, Faith Mwende, Ruth Achando, Edith Wanjiru, Esther Wangari, Alice Muoki,  Fiavia Atieno and Jane Achieng. Lameck Onyango (coach) and Lydia Kaparo (team manager)   Kenya’s batting attack will be spearheaded by Irfan Karim.