President Kenyatta has defended his criticism of the Supreme Court and Chief Justice David Maraga for overturning his re-election, saying he has "a right" to do so. Speaking during campaigns in Kajiado County on Tuesday, Mr Kenyatta reiterated his claim that the top court in the land ignored the will of the people to “please one man”, in reference to the petitioner Raila Odinga. 'ANGRY' “I am angry because I was wronged. They wrongfully overturned my victory. We should tell the truth,” he said during a vote-hunt rally in Kiserian. He said while he respected the court’s decision, he knows he "fairly" won the August 8 presidential poll by more 1.4 million votes. Despite the loss, Mr Kenyatta said, they were confident of winning again. Accompanied by Deputy President William Ruto and a host of Jubilee leaders, the president said nothing had changed as the Kenyans who voted them are the same. "We won fair and square. We won by over 1.4 million votes, but the court decided to deny us our victory. We are more than ready for the fresh elections," said Mr Kenyatta. SH10 BILLION The President further asserted that it would have been prudent for the court to order a recount of the votes, as the Sh10 billion budget required for the repeat election would have been used for development. He gave the example of American Supreme Court, which ordered a recount in the dispute between former US President George Bush and Al Gore in 2004. "It would be easier, but they chose a free election. This is tantamount to denying rights to over 15 million voters who participated in the August's poll," said Mr Kenyatta. He accused Mr Odinga of using his criticism of Mr Maraga to incite the Kisii community against him and Jubilee Party. “Raila is simply inciting the Kisiis by misleading them that I'm blaming the CJ simply because he's a Kisii. I am just expressing my opinion,” he said. “They should leave me alone. When he criticised Matiang’i (for deploying police to maintain order after poll), didn't he know he is a Kisii?”   Supreme Court orders IEBC to conduct fresh polls in 60 days.