Tom Bush Wamukota’s debut National Classic Basketball League home match for Kenya Ports Authority against Strathmore University Blades Saturday afternoon at the KPA Hall, Makande, will be a most memorable one. Kenya Ports Authority’s men’s team takes on Strathmore Blades from 4pm after the women’s game between Strathmore Swords and KPA from 2pm. This will not only be the first time ever that the decorated star will be playing his basketball in Mombasa, but it will also mark his first ever visit to the coastal city since he was born 23 years ago in Bungoma County. The first born son of Webuye West Member of Parliament Dan Wanyama — himself a former Kenya volleyball international player and coach — and former Kenya international women’s volleyball star Nancy Sikobe, Wamukota completed his secondary school education at Maseno School in 2011 and immediately left for the US where he joined Wiley College on a basketball scholarship. THANKFUL TO GAME This was before his basketball prowess saw him transfer to Kilgore and Wichita colleges where he graduated last year with a sports management degree. Wamukota is thankful for the game of basketball which he says has made him reach destinations he could never have dreamt of reaching. “I have never been to Mombasa, and it feels good to be here for the first time,” he told Nation Sport. “That I have come here specifically to play basketball makes me feel good,” said the seven-foot-one tall Wamukota, who has just returned from Cyprus where he had a brief professional stint after graduating from Wichita College last year. After helping Paul Otula’s Maseno School win several national and East Africa secondary schools titles during his four years at the school, Wamukota believes it is now time for him to win the National Classic Basketball League title, the Kecoso Games title and the Fiba Zone Five Club championships titles for his new club, KPA. Wamukota, a centre, became the first Kenyan to ever play in the US collegiate (NCAA) tournament dubbed “Sweet 16”, a tournament which is the equivalent of the NBA play-offs, during his time with Wichita College. It is a single game elimination (knock-out) tournament which features the best 64 teams in the top American college basketball leagues. Wamukota often featured as a role player to add size to Wichit with his  primary strength being his shot blocking ability. Wamukota was born on September 28, 1993, in Bungoma. His mother, Sikobe, featured for the Kenya national volleyball team before proceeding to the US on a volleyball scholarship. His father Wanyama also played for the national men’s volleyball team before rising to be the secretary general of the Kenya Volleeyball Federation.  