Everyone imagines that they’d be happier if only they lived somewhere nicer. In a bigger house. Or had more money. Or a better phone. But it turns out that costly things like that only make you happier for a short while. And make no difference at all in the long run. The things that make you happier for a lifetime are much cheaper. So do lots of them! Like you’ll definitely be happier if you take even the smallest amount of regular exercise. And if you get enough sleep. And eat breakfast. Families are happier when they have a regular routine at home. So eat together, and create regular evening and weekend rituals. Like having a cup of tea together when you arrive home. Or a special meal together on Sundays. Couples are always happier if they have a regular shared bedtime. And lots of good sex. Because the habits that lead to a great sex life also improve every other aspect of the relationship. Like being completely open with one another. Couples who are totally honest and discuss everything are much happier together and more intimate. Try to find activities that are so involving that you don’t notice where the time went. Because what psychologist Mihály Csíkszentmihályi called “flow” – being fully immersed in a task – makes you feel really good about yourself. Actively developing your talents will also make you much happier. Whether at work, sport, playing a musical instrument or whatever. People who actively help others are even happier. Whether by teaching or inspiring them, or just being kind. Like have you noticed that whenever you’re nice to someone, your whole day goes better and people seem to like you more? Having good close friends will also make you much happier. Though that only works in real-life, not online. Married couples are consistently happier than the never married. Though marriage is a high risk strategy these days. When it works, it’s the best possible recipe for happiness. But if a marriage fails, then it’s the worst. Because a bad marriage can create so much unhappiness that a break-up may actually improve things. Even a little regular meditation makes people happier. As does attending religious services. And getting closer to nature. You’ll be happier if you accept yourself the way you are, and are optimistic. Because if you think life’s going to get better, then that’s the way it goes. Optimists think their troubles will pass and are manageable. Pessimists believe they’ll last forever, and can’t be fixed. Fortunately you can learn to be optimistic. By concentrating on things that have gone right – every day. Everything positive, even something as small as it didn’t rain on you. Rather than dwelling on your difficulties. Because one of the biggest causes of unhappiness is worrying about something that went wrong. Or might go wrong in future. So always see the bright side. You’ll be glad you did. And a lot happier.  nyumbayangu@me.com  