The Blaze event held on September 16th in Nakuru was an exciting, star-studded affair. Musicians, actors, bloggers, dancers, comedians and entrepreneurs graced the Safaricom-sponsored event. Timothy Kimani aka Njugush partnered with Nakuru-born Herman Kago (Professor Hamo) and the two had the audience roaring in laughter. Nyashinski, Rabbit aka King Kaka, Timmy Tdat and Kaligraph Jones were some of the artistes present. Abel Mutua, the creative content producer and former actor in local TV show, The Real Househelps of Kwangware, partnered with music producer, Enos Olik to share their journeys in the TV industry. MOTIVATION FOR YOUNG PEOPLE In an apparent upgrade of the 2016 Nakuru Blaze event, the latest one had all its priorities geared towards empowering the hundreds of young people who showed up. The event also had a lot of giveaways, having introduced talent competitions that culminated in several winners taking home Sh 100,000 each. Actor Abel Mutua and music producer Enos Olik hosted the Photography and Filming session. They each shared their struggles pushing for space in the tough career path. “Take it from me: To succeed you will need a lot of perseverance and hard work. Set your goals and work towards them. Never give up and never let anyone discourage you from following your dreams,” said Abel Mutua. In the creative arts session, comedian Njugush co-hosted and motivated the young and talented audience to push towards their dreams. Njugush’s great message was a reiteration of the event’s theme: Greatness Requires Internal Toughness (G.R.I.T).   ‘DON’T REST’ “When you have an idea and you believe in it, don’t rest till you achieve it. Ignore those who push you down and summon the internal toughness within you. Work on your dream, and within several years, you will definitely achieve it,” Njugush said.   While the event was primarily designed to be a youth networking and empowerment event, it was without razzmatazz. Food, drinks, free gifts, gaming competitions, comedy and music made sure that the scores of attendees were entertainment at satisfied all day long. MC, Mwalimu Rachel co-hosted the after party with singer Timmy TDAT, while the disk jockey was graced by legendary DJ Joe Mfalme. Both Nakuru based musicians, including the country-known dance crew Red Spaxx and nationwide famous stars such as Nyashinski and Kaligraph Jones graced the stage.      