Yvonne was referred to me one morning by her school doctor for severe lower abdominal pain. “I think it might be acute appendicitis but I am not sure. Please deal with it if it is one or alternately, rule it out for sure.” That was the gist of his long telephone conversation with me. When I saw Yvonne in the ward later that morning, I found that she was 16 and pointed at the centre of her lower abdomen – we call it the supra-pubic region – as the site of her pain. In the course of my history-taking, I asked her; “Have you started your periods?” “Yes,” she replied bashfully, as is usual with girls who are going through their puberty. “Two years ago.” My next logical question was. “When was your last period?” “Three months back.” As I gasped, she added. “They have been irregular since they started, so I am not unduly worried.” That planted a diagnostic suspicion in my mind and I asked. “Any bleeding from below?” “A few drops,” replied Yvonne, “and that’s why initially I thought I was starting my period because they usually start like this and they are  usually very scanty anyway.” After collecting a full history from Yvonne, I examined her and was surprised to find that she did not wince when I palpated her right lower abdomen, the quadrant which shows maximum tenderness in acute appendicitis. “Ouch,” she screamed when I gently felt her supra-pubic region. I finished the rest of my examination and gave her my opinion, which concurred with that of her school doctor. “It could be your appendix which when it lies in the pelvis, gives pain in the area you are pointing but I want to rule out a couple of things before I finally decide.” I ordered an urgent ultra-sound of her lower abdomen and a pregnancy test on her urine and admitted Yvonne for observation and review when the reports came. I was following US President Ronald Reagan’s political principle which was “Trust but verify”, which applies equally well in surgery. On my way to the ward to see my patient again, en-route, I popped into the X-ray department to see her ultra-sound and discuss it with the radiologist, who met me with the shattering news. “I can see a two month old pregnancy in the uterus.” “Can you see the appendix?” I asked to redeem my patient of the stigma and knowing that presence of early pregnancy does not rule out acute appendicitis. “Yes, the appendix is innocent and is lying happily in the right iliac fossa.” She was referring to the right lower abdomen.” In fact, my secretary is typing the report and if you can have a cup of coffee with me, you can take the report with you.” “Sure,” I replied. “It is always a pleasure to join you for coffee and I better take the images and report with me to convince the patient, especially her parents, who must have arrived by now.” By the time I reached the ward, the urine report had also arrived and was positive for pregnancy. Also sitting by the side of Yvonne’s bed were her parents, who introduced themselves and said that they had been notified by the school. “What is the ultra-sound and urine report please?” The mother asked. “Yvonne told us that you were waiting for the results.” Hesitant to say what they were, I handed them the reports and turning to Yvonne, I said: “It does not seem to be your appendix.” When the parents raised their heads from the unexpected reports, I addressed them: “I better ring my gynaecological colleague and leave you alone to discuss and decide on the next course of action, you would like us to take.” The father asked: “Before you go, what options do we have?” “Well,” I stuttered trying to find the right words for the puzzled and depressed parents. “Appendix operation is out.” I stated the obvious, still searching for the least hurtful words. “We either continue the pregnancy and look for a childless couple who want to adopt a baby or consult a psychiatrist, who might consider continuation of pregnancy injurious to Yvonne’s physical and mental health and might recommend a therapeutic abortion.” “That is out,” the mother intervened, “because our faith doesn’t allow abortion.” “I think you can discuss the matter in details with the gynaecologist.” As I was leaving to ring her, Yvonne’s father tugged at my coat and asked. “Do you mind staying on the case as well?” “I don’t mind if you insist though I don’t think you will need my services because with the diagnosis we have arrived at; the right doctor for Yvonne is the gynaecologist.” As an after-thought and to bring in an element of cheer, I added. “You can’t have two lions in the same jungle!” I rang Dr Damaris Muli from the ward and said to the Sister, “Please call me when she arrives.” I was called when Damaris arrived to see Yvonne and remember her giving Yvonne and her parents a third choice. “Of course you can keep the baby.” To which the mother promptly reacted. “That will not be possible because that course of action will disrupt Yvonne’s education.” Looking at her husband, she added. “We both are past the nappy changing stage and disturbed sleep.” “That leaves with one option.” The father said. “We will take care of our daughter and her pregnancy.” Then addressing Dr Muli, he said. “She will be under your antenatal care and during her confinement.” Turning to me, he added. “We would like you to please stay on the case because I understand that you and Dr Muli work as a team on such cases.” Guessing what he meant, I cautioned them: “It is not easy to find parents with the right educational and social background for adopting a baby in our set-up.” Looking at the surprise on their faces, I went on: “We thought that with the advent of the Pill and the Coil and with increased use of condoms because of the fear of transmitting HIV infection, there would be less unplanned pregnancies and less children available for adoption, resulting in more demand but this has not materialised, perhaps  because of the liberal abortion laws now prevailing all over the world.” “We will see if anyone in our extended family is looking for a baby for adoption.” The mother replied. “In the meantime, please continue the search in your medical circle.” It did not escape my attention that Yvonne’s views were not invited in making a decision on the future of her own baby. Perhaps she had forfeited that privilege by courting an unwanted pregnancy! Yvonne was sent away when her pregnancy could not be concealed, presumably to save her from public opprobrium and she used to attend her antenatal care in Dr Muli’s office stealthily, late in the evening as her last patient. As previously arranged, she was admitted to our labour ward when her waters broke. Unfortunately, I was right in my prediction and between Damaris, Yvonne’ parents and myself, we had not found suitable parents for adopting her baby. A couple of days later, Damaris conveyed to me a mixture of bad and good news in that order. It happened in the Consultant’s Lounge, where one morning Damaris looking bedraggled was pouring a cup of black coffee in her cup. “You look as if you haven’t slept a wink last night,” I said to her. “That’s the normal lot of obstetricians,” she replied. “That does not tire me but I had a very frustrating night.” I did not want to interrupt her but let her talk, which she did in abundance. “I had a woman in normal labour and all was going well when her cord prolapsed. I was around because though the labour was normal, the baby was precious, having been conceived after a wait of 10 years. I quickly organised a forceps delivery to hasten the process but we ended up with a stillborn. Needless to say that the mother is devastated and so is the father.” Used to seeing an opportunity in every challenge, I thought of Yvonne’s baby, waiting to be adopted when Damaris pre-empted me. “There is a silver lining in every cloud, they say and I am going to explore and exploit that silver.” “Good luck.” I wished her warmly. A couple of hours later, when after operating, I found Damaris enjoying a cup of milky ovaltine in the Sister’s office. She still looked tired but had lost the stress lines on her pretty face. “How did it go?” I asked taking my cap and mask off. “Went off very well,” she replied. “There were two points in our favour. They had waited full 10 years for this baby and there was no guarantee that they would have another lucky strike again.” As I felt the furrows on my forehead, she went on: “You know the couple very well because we jointly investigated them for infertility eight years ago and you found nothing wrong with the man and I didn’t find anything wrong with the woman. As usual, I diagnosed their condition as bio-chemical incompatibility and asked them to continue trying and not give up.” “As they say, where there is a will, there is a way.” Then remembering what she had said at the start, I reminded her. “Initially, you said that we had two points in our favour. What was the other point?” I asked. After slowly gulping her ovaltine, a gesture, I suspected was meant to raise the suspense, she clarified. ”You remember that Yvonne’s newborn was a boy. The stillborn was also a boy and you know how precious boys are!”    