Q. My best friend and I studied the same course in college; we graduated last year. Early this year, a relative of hers informed her of a job opportunity in a certain company. She encouraged me to apply too. We were both called in for the interview, and as fate would have it, I got the job. My friend is not happy that I got the job yet she is the one who told me about it. Already, the job is straining our relationship, a factor that is wearing me down. What should I do? Congratulations on your new job. It follows your employer’s view that your profile was the best match for the requirements of the position you now occupy. One would expect your friend to suggest a job opportunity fully aware that there is the chance you could be the successful candidate. It is indeed not bizarre to expect good wishes from a friend. Getting your job entailed more than becoming aware of the job opportunity. Besides the necessary preparation, you must have demonstrated your suitability during the interview. The referral from your friend may have got you on stage but the dance was yours. You need to reflect some more on the role your friend played in you getting the job. If you had come across the job opportunity through other means, you would have been successful still. In any event, the interviewers evaluated you, not the means through which you found the job opportunity. It might be worthwhile considering the following: does your dilemma arise from you getting the job or your friend not getting it? Would your friend be happier if you were both jobless? And what impulses would inform the joy of wallowing together in joblessness? In what ways does your job undermine the friendship and how would your resignation become beneficial? It has been said that we get to know our friends better when our circumstances vary. Your present experience is a crucible in which your friendship is getting tested. If your career progress and this friendship are mutually exclusive, you need to re-evaluate the substance of the friendship. Consider the words of Oscar Wilde. ‘Anybody can sympathise with the sufferings of a friend, but it requires a very fine nature to sympathise with a friend’s success.’  