Imagine having to forego a hiking expedition with friends because the pain in your knees will not allow you to. Or having to ask for help to comb your hair because your fingers are so swollen that you cannot even hold a comb. Or even having to get someone chop vegetables for you when you want to prepare a meal because, with the pain in your knuckles, you just can’t do it. Sounds hellish? Well these are just some of the inconveniences people with rheumatoid arthritis have to endure. Rheumatoid arthritis is a disease that makes what one might consider normal tasks a nightmare, if not impossible, as Ms Ludy Oluoko, a personal assistant in the Ministry of Tourism, will tell you. While she was in high school, Ms Oluoko’s hands began swelling for no apparent reason. “Sometimes I would wake up just fine, at other times my wrists would get so swollen and painful that I could not even hold a cup. When that happened, I would go to the school clinic for treatment. The school nurse would give me an ointment that temporarily stopped the pain,” she recalls.But even after she completed secondary school, the pain persisted. It got so bad that one morning when she woke up, she could not move her legs. “I tried to get up but I couldn’t. Not only did I have to deal with the pain in my hands, but now I was also experiencing pain in my knees, which were badly swollen,” she offers. It was after that frightening experience that her mother took her to a Nairobi hospital, where she was diagnosed with rheumatoid arthritis. That was in 2001 and she was just 18 years old. “With the insights given by the doctor, I learnt a lot about my condition. I found out that rheumatoid arthritis is actually more common in young women than in men, and that it is an autoimmune disease, which means the immune system attacks the body’s healthy tissues. He explained that instead of my white blood cells protecting my body, they would attack it, which is why I felt such excruciating pain,” she says. However, although knowing what was ailing her brought Ms Oluoko relief, it was disheartening to learn that her condition was incurable, and that it could only get worse if she did not receive medical attention immediately.   “With people unaware of what we go through,” she says, “we get judged a lot because we cannot do certain things. For instance, I am a member of the praise and worship team in my church, so I am expected to sing at certain times, yet this is sometimes not possible. People who don’t know what I go through look at me and see a normal member of their team who comes for practice but for some reason refuses to sing.” Interestingly, Ms Oluoko, now 34, shared an experience regarding what happened years after she was diagnosed with the disease. “When I was pregnant with my first son, the pain ceased. In fact, I rarely felt any pain but after I gave birth, the pain tripled. I couldn’t do many simple things, let alone carry my own child,” she says. Ms Pamela Ndede, who lives in Kisumu County, also suffers from rheumatoid arthritis. And like Ms Oluoko, she woke up one morning completely unable to move her legs. She was admitted to hospital for two months and upon discharge was given medicine to manage the pain. “The doctors could not establish the cause of my problem. They just gave me drugs to manage the pain. But 15 years later, as I was grappling with my then 12-year-old daughter’s health as well as mine, I began relating her condition to mine; she had been diagnosed with arthritis. I began to see some similarities. We experienced the same symptoms, except for the pain in my lower back,” she says.   “As a result of the late diagnosis, my condition deteriorated fast over the years. I have been diagnosed with spondyloarthritis (a connective tissue disease that causes prominent joint inflammation and also affects the spine), which was a result of the strenuous activities I performed that continuously exerted pressure on my already painful back. In fact, I have been reduced to not carrying anything that weighs more than two kilogrammes. But apart from that, daily chores like sweeping have become almost impossible,” she says. Besides, she says, being judged by others, and things like climbing stairs and implementing dietary restrictions make life tough and frustrating. Prof George Omondi Oyoo, a rheumatologist, says arthritis affects people of all ages, and not just the elderly, as widely believed, adding that there is a tendency not to take arthritis in children seriously thanks to this misconception. He notes that, if not diagnosed in good time, it can be fatal. If one gets arthritis at a young age and it’s not treated properly, it gets worse with age, and therefore, becomes more difficult to manage. Elizabeth Ameyo, 24, a student in Nairobi, recalls with pain the experience her younger sister, Laura, underwent.” When we were young, I saw my sister battle pain right from primary school. Unlike the rest of us, she could not play very much but would sit on the sidelines watching us. When the pain in her knees showed no signs of lessening after some time, my mother took her to hospital, where she was diagnosed with rheumatoid arthritis.” “It was really sad seeing my sister, who was only 13 years old, drifting away from us because of pain. During one of the visits to the doctor, he suggested that she be given steroid injections on the knee to ease the pain but it worked only for some time,” she recounts, adding, “Four years later, when she was in high school, the pain came back, this time with a vengeance. It was hard to imagine what she was going through, given that the school rule required us to run to class. And her passion for basketball began to wane.” Ms Ameyo recalls how some of her sister’s team mates dismissed her as “lazy” during practice. However, while some showed concern, there were those who could not understand how she had a disease for the aged. “Although she was among the best players in the basketball team, there were those who never stopped teasing her,” recalls Ms Ameyo emotionally. She says love and support are the best therapy one can give patients with arthritis, adding that she was forced to attend the same schools as her sister to reassure her that she had the support of everyone at home. Knowing that you are not the only one with a problem makes it easier to bear, and this is where support groups come in. “Two years after being diagnosed with arthritis, I met with my doctor and a few other patients. Since there were few organisations dealing with the disease, I helped found the Association for Arthritis and Rheumatic Diseases (AARD). It is an organisation that brings together patients, doctors, specialists and physiotherapists. During the meetings, they learn more about the disease, how to manage it and above all, how to maintaining a positive attitude,” says Ms Lilian Mwaniki, the secretary for the Global Alliance for Musculoskeletal Health of the Bone and Joint Decade (GMUSC). “We aim to provide patients with a conducive environment in which they can develop the mentality that one can fight the pain and still manage their other feelings well. As much as it’s tough, they should not suffer in silence but open up to enable others to understand their pain. After all, the pain does not define them,” she says. She acknowledges that arthritis is also accompanied with stigma, and on two fronts. First is the self-inflicted, where a patient feels depressed by the fact their pain prevents them from doing certain things. Then there is the public stigma which, as a result of not understanding what patients go through, people see them as “good for nothing” or pretenders. Ms Mwaniki encourages patients to join support groups in order to enhance their knowledge of what is going on in their bodies as well as to help them develop a positive attitude. She however, notes that coping with the condition calls for a great deal of patience. Although Kenyans know more about the disease than, say in the ’80s, experts say that there is an urgent need to create widespread awareness of the disease and for the government to look into the different types of arthritis and subsidize their medication. DISEASE HAS MANY TYPES AND ATTACKS AT ANY AGE Prof George Omondi Oyoo, a consultant physician and rheumatologist at the Nairobi Arthritis Clinic, says arthritis is not just one disease but rather, a term that covers more than 200 medical conditions that affect the joints.   “It is a condition normally linked with an individual’s genes and has more than 100 causes. It is unfortunate that if your parents have it, the chances of you getting it compared to the general population is 10 per cent higher. In the case of twins, if one has it, then chances of the other getting it are 25 per cent higher,” he says. “However, there are known cases of people without any family history of the disease getting it.” Prof Oyoo says the different types of arthritis affect people of different ages and sexes. “Osteoarthritis, also referred as degenerative joint disease, is among the most common forms of arthritis. It is prevalent among older people and affects the cartilage (Connective found in many areas of the body including the joints between bones, such as the elbows, knees and ankles). However, people who are overweight, or have joint malformation, or engage in activities that stress the joints, are also susceptible to the disease,” he says. Prof Oyoo points out that while the disease affects both men and women, it is more common in men than in women before the age of 45, while the reverse is true after this age. He adds that children as young as three are not spared, in which case it is referred to as juvenile arthritis. He recounts an incident to illustrate the point: “I remember one evening I received a woman and a man in my office and I was certain that one of them, if not both, was most likely the patient. But to my surprise, it wasn’t either of them but their daughter, Nina, who was nine years old! After asking them a couple of questions, I realised that the symptoms they had described were those of arthritis. These were parents concerned about their child’s health, which continuously deteriorated in the sense that it manifested itself in her school work and general performance. When Nina was brought to see me, one could see the pain in her eyes and I knew something had to be done about that,” he adds. Professor Oyoo says that arthritis can have serious consequences if not well managed. “Different types of arthritis, from juvenile, osteoarthritis, rheumatoid, lupus, gout and reactive arthritis, among others, have different treatment. What is important to realise is that if one waits for a long time before seeking medical attention, the doctor has to carry out a series of tests, making treatment expensive. In addition, the drugs can also be expensive,” he says.  