With several hit songs like “Majanga”, “Yoyoba”, ”Sina Raha” under his belt, Dogo Richie is easily one of the top artists in Mombasa. But it’s not just his music that has propelled him to fame. His career has also been dogged by controversy and one could argue that this has helped keep the singer relevant in the industry as well. Nation.co.ke recently caught up with him.   Let’s talk about your diss track “Majanga” which you released in 2016. It was targeted at fellow Coast musicians, right? They were not happy… Hehehe! Bro, I was just being honest with myself. I was speaking my mind. Besides, some of the scandals and rumours  I mentioned about the artistes are already in the public domain .   It’s a year now. Where is the video to the controversial song?I won’t be releasing the video to the song. This is because after I dropped the audio, several artistes were not happy and they took me to court but we were able to sort out the issues out of court. And because of that I thought it wise to let things go by not going ahead to release the video.   In the song you claim Susumila has been doing music for over ten years but he is yet to own a car, are you guys beefing?Haha! Not at all bro, but it’s the truth he is yet to own one. However, that is irrelevant because I also mentioned other stars in the song the likes of Ally B, Kaa La Moto, Nyota Ndogo, Sudi Boy. The song wasn’t just about him.   A few weeks ago Susumila released a diss track “Tebwere” that is seen as a response to “Majanga” and in one of the verses he says ‘Majanga ni msanii kuishi nyumba ya tenga mbili.’ Isn’t that a barb directed to you?He didn't mention any names. But that's beside the point, even if he was directing it to me, look here I have a family a kid and a wife, such a house is too small to accommodate us.    Are the two of you in speaking terms?It’s been a while since we’ve been in contact. But we are cool we don't have any personal issues. I really do respect his hustle and he is a nice guy and very hard working to be where he is today. As a matter of fact he has linked me to so many corporate deals.      Rumours has it that you gone broke to an extent that you now selling Miraa in Bamburi?You know, when you famous, there will always be some negative energy from people who wouldn't want to see you prosper. Well they got to say all they want to. Anyway as we speak I just signed a lucrative contract to market a posh club in Bamburi known as the The Place. So tell me, how am I supposed to do that and at the same time sell miraa? Haileti picha nzuri     Word out there also has it that you have signed to be managed by Diamond Platnumz ex Wema Sepetu?That's not true, the people spreading the rumor got it all twisted. The thing is, I have a new single that am about to release that a close friend of mine who also happens to be close to Wema got a chance to listen to. He later shared the song with Wema who ended up loving it and requested that whenever I will be ready to shoot the video, I should contact her so that she play the video vixen.  And why would Wema Sepetu get obsessed with your yet to be released song to such an extent? Because the song is all about her.       
  
If you have watched the controversial reality TV show Nairobi Diaries then you must have ‘met’ Natalie Florence aka Noti Flow and witnessed her naughtiness.