BOOK TITLE: Spirit, Water & Blood AUTHOR:David M. Kituyi REVIEWED BY:Benson Mwangi PUBLISHER:Garland Silver Publishers YEAR:2017 In Volume 27 of The Metropolitan Tabernacle Pulpit by the eminent prince of preachers, Charles Haddon Spurgeon, he quips in the sermon that believers should realise that they are “dear to the heart of our incarnate God, and amid the sands of this wilderness, a fountain of overflowing joy is open before us”. This seems to be the clarion call by David M. Kituyi in his book Spirit, Water & Blood. Every father wants to dwell with his children. The will of God since creation has always been to dwell with his children. PLAIN TRUTHS David lays down some mind-clearing truths with scriptural evidence that will fire up any believer. What does the first of the ten calamitous plagues of the Exodus by Moses and Jesus’ first miracle at Cana of Galilee, turning water in wine, have in common? Is there any significance in three heavens described in the Bible or the transfiguration of Jesus Christ and its apocalyptic foresight? The author even goes a tad further to show how the plagues of the devil in all manner of tragedies and illnesses are not actually directed to the person but whom the person believes in. COMPELLING EXPOSITIONS Spirit, Water & Bloodalso demystifies hell by taking you through the interesting expositions of Gehenna, Tartarus, Hades, and Sheol and what they all mean. Was paradise at one time just around hades by the time of Jesus Christ coming? Is death just that? Kituyi makes a case of more than just the body going cold in startling alacrity, including the transformation of circumcision, not in the modus and mien of Moses Kuria, but of a sacred biblical standard and pious insight as he shows God’s perfect will of this baptism from the old pre and post mosaic times and its new dispensation in the age of grace. GIFTS GIVEN AND IGNORED In the book, the interconnectedness of the Seraphim, cherubim, four living creatures, worship and maintaining the presence of God is outlined plainly and how all these play out spiritually through the indwelling Holy Spirit.  Kituyi lays down an easy to grasp discourse on how to identify the diverse Gifts of the Holy Spirit, from Motivational, Ministry Position to Manifestation gifts in the life of a believer. He makes it so easy the Christian will never again ask what the purpose of God is in his or her life and the great commission as charged by Christ.   While the Gifts of the Holy Spirit are highly desired and craved for by Christians, usually the important matter of the Fruit of the Spirit is ignored, which Kituyi takes you through in a simple, easy to understand read that seems like a personal bible study with a personal canonical tutor who knows his holy writ. Arthur W. Pink in the Attributes of God, talks about the love of God making a change in God's people once it's “shed abroad in our hearts”. In the nine manifestations of the Fruit of the Spirit, Kituyi makes a case for the supremacy of love and how God’s definition of the four letter word is divergent from ours as Nehushtan is from Cherubi. IMPORTANT PRINCIPLE IGNORED Throughout Spirit, Water & Blood, the author illustrates the frailty and obsoleteness of labouring in Christian life on your own to accomplish your God-given purpose without the input, direction, inspiration and tutorage of the Holy Spirit. How the ignorance of this important principle has begotten fruitless, stagnant, self-righteous, self-centred weak Christians mired in astounding religiosity. In the whole counsel of God as elaborated, protracted and exposed in the book, the danger is seemingly akin to taking up certain biblical principles and building a religious mammoth around it forgetting the builder of the house, Christ. The Holy Spirit is painted as the oomph and fuel needed to mature the fruit of love in a person within and without. LOST FIRE Kituyi writes in the manner of a shepherd weeping for a flock that has lost its fire. He sounds like a signpost to the source of living waters to awaken them to the veiled up blindness from the pit of darkness so cunningly obscured that most hardly apprehend the rain has already started butting them. The days when morning glories, evening and night bible studies, fellowships, keshas, memoriSing scripture, talking in tongues, efficacious prayer lives and victories were normal and sadly, in the past. As disobedience is the seed that slays many spiritually and physically, the author shows how obedience is exactly what turns this sad state of affairs around, resurrecting the deadness in a believer to a heavenly delight of spiritual and physical scope in its countenance. The author ostensibly walks with you, opening up the scriptures, pointing, directing and returning you to the stream of cool living waters where the refreshing, rejuvenating life-giving rivulets that restore the soul and lead one in the path of righteousness are to be found.  Do you have feedback on this story? E-mail: lifeandstyle@ke.nationmedia.com    Who is a real woman? How far can a pretty face take you in life?