LOW PRODUCTION FROM CHICKENSI started a poultry project sometime back and my problem is that production is very low despite giving them commercial feeds and egg booster, which I was recommended to offer. Please advise before I dispose them due to high cost of feed.Bethwel Fluctuating egg production has become a big challenge for many poultry farmers. Below-par management is the main contributor to varying egg production and quality. Good feeding programme (and feeds) alone is not enough to salvage production. During a layer’s production cycle, many other factors influence egg production, therefore, the cycle must be effectively and efficiently managed to maximise output and profitability. Clean water must always be available to avoid heat stress. When lights are off, chickens hardly eat, resulting in low egg production, therefore, understanding the lighting schedule is important. Weight of the bird is another factor since underweight or overweight hens lay eggs at lower rates, hence good feeding and disease measures should be undertaken to achieve optimum body weight. Vaccination schedules, disease and parasite control measures should also be adhered to. My assumption is that the age, genetic make-up of the chicken breed, housing and egg collection rate are alright. Felix Akatch Opinya, Department of Animal Science, Egerton University.  Commercial goat Rearing for meatHow can one undertake commercial goat rearing for meat? Are there contract farming opportunities for goat in the venture?Menya Mwambeu Raising goats for meat production is a venture with great potential currently and has good return per investment ratio thanks to the fast growing and changing consumer diet preferences. There is vast market opportunity in almost every urban town at butcheries, nyama choma outlets and hotels. Generally, raising them starts with adoption of a suitable production plan, which adequately takes care of feeding, breeding, disease control and flock size that will fit within your production resources. Meeting these needs will sustain and maintain consistency in ensuring continuous reproduction and growth keeping and give you quality products. Goats ideal for commercial meat production are Galla or their crosses with exotic meat breeds such as the Boer. Upgrading the commonly available Small East African goats will also be a smart move. Contract farming, on the other hand, guarantees you market. Hotels would be a good place to start with and in addition, approach the Kenya Meat Commission which requires large numbers for value addition.Felix Akatch Opinya, Department of Animal Science, Egerton University.  SORGHUM variety and thrasherI read an article in July 2011 that Egerton University had started developing a sorghum variety that was ideal for arid and semi-arid areas, is drought resistant and high yielding and at the same time an engineer from Agricultural Department at Egerton was developing a sorghum thrasher to help farmers reap maximum profit from the crop. Are the seeds and the thrasher available in the market and if so where can I buy them?Stanley The seeds are available in the market and can be obtained at Egerton University’s Seed Unit. In the unit you will find agronomists who will advise on how to plant and take care of the crop so as to get maximum yields depending on where you are. Muriuki Ruth Wangari, Department of Crops, Horticulture and Soils, Egerton University RABBIT MARKETWe plan to start rearing high breed rabbits in Wanyororo, Dundori Ward, Nakuru County. What worries us most is the market. Another thing, which breeds would you recommend?Antony I am a rabbit farmer in Kakamega County. I rear high breed rabbits but I am unable to find market in this region. Please advise or refer me to someone who can buy them.Sarah Rabbit has a tender, sweet flavoured meat which is rich in proteins and has low cholesterol that consumers prefer. In spite of this, farmers are still reaping losses and abandoning rabbit keeping as there is no guaranteed market. To be successful, one needs to be sure of the market and contract farming helps. Rabbit market companies offer more than just market for the meat or urine by guiding farmers on best production practices through trainings, giving soft loans and farm inputs. Of late, rabbit market has become a big challenge, thus, you should be cautious to get sustainable deals and keep away from fraudsters. Breeds like New Zealand White, California White, Chinchilla, Flemish Giant are most preferred in the market. Felix Akatch Opinya, Department of Animal Science, Egerton University. COST OF GREENHOUSEWhat is the full dimension of a small greenhouse and how much can it cost? MwauraWell, the dimension of small greenhouse is 8m by 15m. We also have low tunnel greenhouse of which the operator must bend as operations are done. Now the cost of such a greenhouse depends on the material used for construction. For instance, if you use painted metallic frames high quality covering polyethylene (special) material anti-drip UV light treated selective photosynthetic active radiation (PAR) cover, it will cost approximately Sh250,000 to Sh300,000. That is inclusive of fixing drip irrigation system. Guaranteed life span of cover material is 3-4 years. Cheaper material is also available for wood frames, general cover material lasting for not more than 1-1 and half years. Peter Caleb Otieno, Department of Crops, Horticulture and Soils, Egerton University. ***** YELLOW MAIZE FOR DAIRY COWSKindly assist me with the telephone number of farmerJulius Kitur who was featured last week. EDITOR: Kindly talk to Kitur on 0731100185.  DAIRY FARMERI am William Kiplangat, a resident of Uasin Gishu County and a dairy farmer. I want to contact Dave Kimani of Murang’a. Please share his phone number.EDITOR: Talk to Dave Kimani on 0722280814. SEEDS OF GOLDThe Denise Hogan Library in Zimmerman Estate, Nairobi keeps a special file on all back issues of Seed of Gold. It is the most popular corner in the community library with people coming to read various aspects of farming for free. Please get in touch if you missed anything in the magazine.Harrison KilonzoDirector0724369655  