Q. When job hunting, most of the recruiters I have met regard job seekers as desperate. I don’t understand why they expect you to sell yourself to them, yet seldom will they tell you why the recruiting company is a good company to work for. Isn’t this condescending? Recruiters are expected to be professional in their conduct with job seekers, and this includes treating their candidates with respect, whether they fit the role they are sourcing for or not. Interview candidates are entitled to basic information in regard to the role they are interviewing for, which is usually detailed in a job description, or advert. In cases where such information is not available, the recruiter is expected to take some time to introduce the role, the client and skills as well as the competencies being sought. As a candidate, you have a right to ask for this information to enable you sell your competencies successfully. A recruiter should also inform you of the interview process from start to end: how many interviews are lined up for the role, what to expect at each interview stage, including a written task if any, and presentations or group discussions. Remember that the interviewer is desperate to recruit successfully just as you are desperate to nail the job, however, the recruiter is always first among equals as he has a pool to choose from, whereas all you have is to convince them you are the best in that pool. During the interview process, candidates are given a window to ask some questions. This is your opportunity to probe some more about the employer if still in doubt, in addition to other equally important questions. I have seen some candidates pull out a list of questions at this stage, almost turning tables to become the interviewer. That is not a smart move and can easily cost you a job. All you are expected to do is clarify information that is not clear in regard to the role, not interview your recruiters about strategy, local and global challenges. To close the interview, the recruiter should give you an indication on when to expect feedback. In some cases, you may be advanced to the next interview, giving you advance notice to prepare. In situations where they are sure you are not a perfect fit for the role, they are likely to give you honest feedback forthwith, with useful tips on what roles would suit you best. Treasure such feedback even if the outcome is not what you expected.  