Things have not been business as usual in the bongo flava heart-throb Diamond Platnumz and his wife Zari household ever since he confessed to having slept and fathered a child with Hamisa Mobeto. Having weathered the storm of one scandal after another, yet another rumour has cropped up just as it seemed like everything was settling down with the power showbiz couple who have been called in various showbiz circles as the Tanzanian version of Kimye (Kim Kardashian and Kanye West). The Tanzanian blogosphere is awash with news that the Toyota RAV4 that the bongo flava star Diamond bought his baby mama Hamisa Mobeto was actually meant for his mother Sandra. Diamond allegedly promised his mother the RAV4 which he had imported for his beloved mother but changed his mind and gave it to Hamisa instead after the car’s arrival coincided with the date she gave birth. A push present, perhaps? According to a reputable Tanzanian blog, this gesture upset Diamond’s mother a great deal but she kept mum and accepted her son’s decision. A close friend of Diamond reportedly said: “Yule msanii alikuwa anataka kumpa ile Rav 4 mama yake sasa ilipotua nchini ndiyo wakati ambao Mobeto alikuwa amejifungua kwa hiyo akaona bora ampe mzazi mwenziye huyo mpya kwanza halafu mama yake akaahidi kumuagizia gari lingine. Sasa nasikia mama wa msanii hakufurahishwa na kitendo hicho. Kidogo alimaindi kwani tayari yeye alishajiandaa ku-drive mkoko mpya. Akabaki anaumia na moyo wake. Hata pale mama wa msanii huyo alipoenda hospitali kumuona mjukuu wake kwa mara ya kwanza, alikuwa hana furaha sana lakini ndiyo hivyo, atafanyaje sasa wakati aliambiwa amuwakilishe mwanaye ambaye alikuwa nje kikazi.”(The artiste had promised his mom the RAV4 but when it arrived in the country, it coincided with the dates Hamisa was delivering his child. This made the musician to change his mind and give it to her instead. I am told his mom got mad because she was eagerly waiting for the gift. Even when she visited Hamisa at the hospital, she wasn't in good moods but she had to because her son had asked her to as he wasn't in the country at that time.) When Hamisa was reportedly contacted by phone, her calls went unanswered. Her mother Shufaa Lutigunga was reachable but declined to comment, saying: “Jamani wenzenu sasa hivi mambo yamekuwa mengi sana kuhusu mimi na mwanangu. Ngoja tupumzike kidogo jamani.” (Kindly you guys leave us alone, there has been so much about me and my daughter. We need some peace of mind right about now.)                         
  
Abdul Naseeb shared his thoughts about the Diamond love triangle after visiting his grandson Abdulatifah