Enraged sports federations chiefs have criticised the move by the National Olympic Committee of Kenya (Nock) to craft what they termed as an “illegal delegates list” ahead of the September 29 election. Addressing a press conference yesterday, Kenya Table Tennis Association (KTTA) president Andrew Mudibo accused Nock secretary general Francis Paul of taking over the roles of the electoral board, the Centre for Multiparty Democracy (CMD). Mudibo questioned why Nock included officials from factions within federations that still have wrangles. Mudibo was accompanied by Kenya Judo Association chairman Shadrack Maluki, Kenya Hockey Union vice chairperson Elynah Shiveka, Kenya Weightlifting Association chief Pius Ochieng, Kenya Sports Shooting Federation leader Shoiab Abdulgani and Kenya Swimming Federation transitional committee chairman Conrad Thorpe. BARRED FROM PARTICIPATING In a letter dated September 14, 2017, Paul forwarded certain names to the federations requesting them to confirm whether they were bona fide appointees, who will participate in the elections. The list includes officials from five federations that had been asked to put their houses in order during the Extra Ordinary General Assembly on September 6 or risk being barred from participating in the election. The federations that have different groups claiming legitimacy — Kenya Taekwondo Association, Kenya Cycling Federation, Kenya Badminton Association and Kenya Canoeing and Rowing Federation and Kenya Swimming Federation. But in a new turn of events on Friday, Paul said that they have agreed with International Olympic Committee (IOC) that the Elective General Assembly will decide on issues where the warring federations and CMD will not have settled. “It’s the General Assembly that will decide who their members are,” said Paul. The Extra Ordinary General Assembly came up with the new dates for the elections following the aborted May 5 election where Kenya Taekwondo Association halted the process through a court order. Paul wrote to Kenya Badminton Association to confirm whether Sylvester Ochieng and Geoffrey Shigoli will be their delegates with Julius Mwangi and Charles Mbote coming from Kenya Cycling Federation. Kenya Taekwondo Association were also asked to confirm whether the faction led by Suleiman Sumba and George Wesonga will represent them. and whether Patrick Muya and Winnie Kamau will represent Kenya Cycling Federation. Rowing and Canoeing have Richard Olakhi and Octovious Njue. The move my Paul creates another battle front that could once again see officials from factions that have not been contacted by Nock seeking legal redress. “After the Extra Ordinary General Assembly, the Nock executive was quite clear that federations that have factions or issues must resolve them before September 29 elections or they will not be allowed to participate,” Mudibo said. “If this is the case, then we should not have seen names of delegates from certain factions being shared in the list that was circulated.” Mudibo said that it’s the federation that should nominate names of their delegates for the electoral process and not Nock. Maluki said that the move by Nock is deliberate since they want to “create chaos through court injunctions” so as to uphold the status quo. “They are happy being in office and we know what they want,” said Maluki. “We shall be sending our appeal to IOC and the Kenyan public not to allow any disruptions.”   Soi is facing corruption and abuse of office charges.