Whether you are a flash disk-wielding bedsitter-living hustler and serial raider of the estate bootlegged movies den or a high flying cabernet sauvignon with caviar kind of person, you deserve love and romance as well. These five date night films might just help you spice up your marriage or relationship. FINALLY FOUND SOMEONE (2017) The Filipino soap operas are awash in major television stations across Kenya. They give a contrasting unique melodramatic take on love and romance. Finally Found Someone is a Filipino film that renders this romantic terrain in sheer rom-com highs featuring John Lloyd Cruz and Sarah Geronimo. It hits the right sensibilities immediately the events surrounding Aprilyn begin to unfold as a bride left and forsaken by the groom on their wedding day and her confounded misery as the affair goes viral online. In her distraught mien, her path crosses that of a PR agency guy hired by the groom’s father and the rest is history; great film to help the quintessential heartbroken girl who wants to brainwash a new guy in her life about helping her to move on and take the ‘situationship’ into a real relationship. THE BIG SICK (2017) Any Kenyan involved in interethnic/interracial romance will love The Big Sick. With a solid leading cast of Kumail Nanjiani and Zoe Kazan, the film explores cultural differences between a man from a traditional Pakistani family and a white girl in his pursuit of the American dream as a stand-up comedian with a side hustle as an Uber driver. It’s an intelligent, earnest and hilarious film that explores cross-cultural themes superbly, perhaps because it’s a real-life rendition of Nanjiani’s cross-cultural relationship with his wife Emily Vance Gordon who also co-wrote the film. EVERYTHING, EVERYTHING(2017) A take on Nicola Yoon’s young adult novel Everything, Everything, the romantic drama brings together Amandla Stenberg and Nick Robinson.  A teenage girl suffering fromSevere combined immunodeficiency(SCID) lives a confined indoor life and everything is normal until a teenage boy and his family comes to live next door. The melodramatic among us will be wooed as deep self-centred maternal secrets become manifest and true love battles to conquer this. EVERYBODY LOVES SOMEBODY(2017) That the Mexican soap is a typical domestic television binge in most Kenyan homes is common knowledge. Everybody Loves Somebody is a romantic comedy that takes this theme to cinematic excellence through the unfolding drama coalesced around Karla Souza and José María Yazpik. In a film that reminiscences the plot in 2009’s The Proposal starring Sandra Bullock and Ryan Reynolds, Everybody Loves Somebody shakes up the rom-com genre with a charming display in a delicious affecting datenight favourite.  Any high flying Kenyan girl with a great job, nice house and a loving family that knows how to have fun yet unsuccessful in her love life will find the film one to rope in a romantic movie list; not just for the comedy mayhem that unfolds but as a reminder that bliss is a choice between an ex and a new love possibility. THE LOVERS(2017) A marriage made up of an estranged couple living together each with a mpango wa kando unfurls in The Lovers, featuring Tracy Letts and Debra Winger in the starring roles. After an uncommon early morning passionate kiss rekindles their love leading to more passionate encounters, the two have to deal with the imminent return of their son with his girlfriend who believes they are horrible parents in a failed marriage and their demanding, agitated side-chicks who want them to divorce.    