Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission chairman Wafula Chebukati’s security detail is intact, the National Police Service said Sunday. Police spokesman George Kinoti said no changes had been made to Mr Chebukati’s security arrangement, disputing claims by Nasa co-principal Moses Wetang'ula. Mr Wetang'ula on Saturday claimed that the government had recalled Mr Chebukati’s bodyguards. Mr Kinoti said the claims by Mr Wetang'ula were baseless. “That is false. It is unfair to give sensational and unsubstantiated allegations. There have not been any changes at all,” Mr Kinoti said. On Friday, sources close to Mr Chebukati alleged that his bodyguards had been recalled in unclear circumstances. SECURITY Mr Wetang'ula termed as unconstitutional the alleged move by the government, saying that the security of the head of an independent institution should not be taken for granted. He warned government officials that they will be held responsible if anything happens to Mr Chebukati. “It’s Mr Chebukati’s constitutional right to have security and it is not a privilege. I want to tell Jubilee administration that if anything happens to Mr Chebukati it will be held responsible,” said Mr Wetang'ula. Security of IEBC commissioners has been a matter of concern after the murder of  Chris Msando a week before the elections. After Mr Msando’s murder, Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet deployed more police officers to guard IEBC commissioners. Mr Boinnet announced that all IEBC staff would be given armed security personnel. TENSION Last week, Mr Chebukati appointed a team that will oversee the repeat elections slated for October 17. Tension has been high at the commission after Mr Chebukati served CEO Ezra Chiloba with a 12 paragraphed memo asking him to explain why the August 8 Election was a sham. READ; Chebukati calls IEBC retreat to end wrangles READ; Chebukati’s litmus test and our buck passing Apart from claiming that his name was used to create an account which was used over 9000 times without his knowledge, Mr Chebukati said at least 500 polling stations failed to send results. He also said over 600 polling stations had the same number of rejected votes as the number of registered voters in the polling stations and that over 10,000 polling stations sent results without Forms 34A. The Supreme Court ruled that the August 8 General elections were marred with irregularities and ordered a fresh presidential poll to be conducted within two months. This followed a petition by the National Super Alliance leader, Raila Odinga after IEBC declared President Uhuru Kenyatta as the winner of the elections.  