National football team Harambee Stars plays Mozambique in an international friendly match at 42,000-seater Zimpeto National Stadium in Maputo from 7pm on Saturday. Saturday’s match against Mozambique’s Os Mambas will be Stars’ first international assignment since June this year when the team lost 2-1 to Sierra Leone in their first match of the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations qualifiers in Freetown. That loss ended Kenya’s 10-match unbeaten run, and complicated Harambee Stars’ chances of making an appearance at the continental show piece. Stars will therefore use this match to prepare for their second Afcon qualification match of against Black Stars of Ghana scheduled for March 23 at home. “The Sierra Leone game didn’t go as we had planned, and we want to make amends this time round. We are focusing our next game against Ghana, and we are targeting positive results. “This match is very important for us because it will help us gauge our strength. We shall all try our best to win the game,” New York-based defender David Ochieng said on Wednesday prior to the team’s departure. A number of first team players, including captain Victor Wanyama, midfielder Johanna Omolo, striker Michael Olunga and winger Ayub Timbe, withdrew from coach Stanley Okumbi’s squad for various reasons. In Wanyama’s absence, Zesco United defender David ‘Calabar’ Owino will wear the captain's armband as the team seeks to bounce back from the devastating loss against Sierra Leone. The Mambas are placed 104th in Fifa rankings, 22 places below Kenya who beat them 1-0 in an international friendly match played at Nyayo National Stadium last November. Stars arrived in Maputo on Wednesday afternoon after training together for three days at the Kenya School of Monetary Studies in Nairobi. Meanwhile, the national team’s reserve team drew 1-1 with Mauritania in another friendly match played on Thursday evening in Morocco. The team, under coaches Musa Otieno and Frank Ouna, left the country on Tuesday morning for Morocco, and will remain in Morocco until September 4 ahead of their second and final friendly assignment against Togo. Team to play Mozambique: Goalkeepers: Fredrick Odhiambo (Gor Mahia, Kenya), Patrick Matasi (Posta Rangers). Defenders: Brian Mandela (Maritzburg Utd, S. Africa), Aboud Omar (Slavia Sofia, Bulgaria), Joackins Atudo (Posta Rangers, Kenya), Kamura Robinson (AFC Leopards), David Ochieng (New York Cosmos, USA), David Owino Odhiambi (Zesco Utd, Zambia). Midfielders: Anthony Akumu (Zesco Utd), Cliffton Miheso (Buildcon FC, Zambia) Duncan Otieno (AFC Leopards), Amos Asembekha (Sony Sugar) Eric Johanna (Vasalund FC, Sweden), Victor Majid (AFC Leopards), Boniface Muchiri (Tusker), Kenneth Muguna (Gor Mahia). Attackers: Jesse Were (Zesco Utd), John Mark Makwatta (Buildcon FC, Zambia), Timothy Otieno, George Odhiambo (Gor).  