National examination candidates will have question papers and answer booklets combined in one document, the Kenya National Examinations Council has said. The council said the papers would be combined where applicable, and that candidates would not be issued with separate answer booklets. In a brief to monitors on Monday, Knec said the decision was taken to make the administration of the national tests more efficient and effective. Multiple choice answer sheets for the Kenya Certificate of Primary Education examination will have personalised details. These are some of the measures the council and the Ministry of Education have taken to address irregularities during the tests. OPTICAL MARK The council has also introduced personalised optical mark reader (OMR) forms for the final primary school examination, which are aimed at addressing cases of candidates who have problems with shading their index numbers and those who inadvertently shade the ellipse for absent. READ: No exam leak, Knec says “The OMR forms are pre-printed with index numbers and names of candidates and the centre name. They are also subject-specific,” the brief said. “The candidates are therefore expected to confirm that the forms they have been issued with have the correct index number, their names and centre name and that they are for the correct subject.” PACKAGING METHOD According to the brief,  candidates should handle the OMR forms with care and not write or put marks on them, apart from shading the answers. “For every 20 candidates, there should be one invigilator and for every 200 candidates there should be one supervisor,” the brief added. READ: Teachers face jail in new cheating rules “Supervisors and invigilators should  not have administered  national examinations in the same  institution for more than two consecutive years.” The council has also produced the first edition of the manual for KCPE and KCSE examinations. “The manual is to be kept by the headteacher and issued to the supervisor during the examination period for reference,” the brief said. SECURITY OFFICERS Knec also introduced a packaging method of the examination materials. A monitor would be paid Sh2,000 a day and an airtime allowance of Sh1,000. Those in volatile areas will be provided with money to hire security officers. A total of 1,003,556 candidates will sit the KCPE exam while 615,773 registered for the KCSE tests to be held in November.   Last year’s KCPE results were released on December 1.