Wiper Party Secretary General Hassan Omar has resigned from the party. Mr Omar said he will not campaign for National Super Alliance (Nasa) leader Raila Odinga in the October 17 presidential elections for personal reasons. The party’s Executive Director Dr Jared Siso on Thursday confirmed Omar’s resignation saying the move will not create any leadership vacuum in the Kalonzo Musyoka led party. TWO DEPUTIES “We have two validly elected officials who deputised Mr Omar and so they will take his responsibilities immediately,” said Dr Siso on phone. The two deputies, who will fill Mr Omar’s position are former Wiper nominated Senator Judith Sijeny and ex- East Africa Legislative Assembly member Peter Mathuki. Dr Siso said Wiper’s National Executive Council will soon convene to find a replacement for the former Mombasa Senator. In the letter sent to Wiper Party leader Kalonzo Musyoka dated September 6, Mr Omar gives several reasons for his resignation including pursuing justice in the Mombasa gubernatorial election, which he lost to incumbent Hassan Joho, furthering his studies and reorganising his political career. NASA “My endeavour towards scholarship, personal development and repositioning the discourse for social justice and accountability in Mombasa and the coast region through non-state actors makes my position as Secretary General untenable,” the letter states. Efforts to get Mr Omar to comment failed as he did not answer our phone calls and text messages. Mr Omar repeats an earlier stand made before the August 8 General Election that he would not serve in a Nasa government, even if the coalition won the polls. CAMPAIGN “You will indeed recall that way before the August 8 General Election I made it clear to you and the Rt. Honourable Raila Odinga that I bear no desire to serve in your government in the event that you were elected and I was not elected governor of Mombasa for deep-rooted personal reasons that I will one day share,” he says. He says he will not play any part in the campaigns for the repeat polls set for October 17. “As such, it is unlikely that I will play any part in your 17th October Presidential quest, but nonetheless, I most sincerely wish you the very best,” he says. It is not immediately clear whether Mr Omar will ditch the party altogether. WEAKEN PARTY In a rejoinder, Mr Mathuki said that Mr Hassan’s exit does not weaken the party. “While we regret his departure, we want to assure our supporters that our party is stronger than ever. This event is giving us a chance to rebrand,” said Mr Mathuki, who was also Ms Wavinya Ndeti’s running mate in the Machakos governor race. “His exit has not had much of an impact, and we really wish him well.” With 120 members of county assemblies and about 20 MPs, Mr Mathuki said Wiper Party has maintained a national representation and could only get better.  