As the October 17 repeat presidential election nears, the youth of Kenya stand at a very critical time in history. They have the numbers that, if well utilised, could give the country a new lease of life. The youth, therefore, want whoever will be the next President to create employment and business opportunities, fight corruption, ensure the higher education system works, unite the nation, streamline government systems and defend their constitutional rights, among other demands. Article 55 of the Constitution obligates the State to ensure youth employment and empowerment. The government should invest in innovation and business entrepreneurship projects for the youth to give them a new vision and spur inclusive socio-economic development. The future of any nation lies in investment in its youth. Integration of youth in development and governance will tap into their creative abilities and ideas to push the country forward. YOUTH That is why it is important for the next government to have Kenya’s interests at heart by working with the youth. The youth unemployment rate in Kenya is tipping at 40 per cent. Shockingly, a most glaring fact is that 70 per cent of the unemployed youth are young university graduates. That points at something amiss in our education system. A majority of the youth feel that the education system has failed them. They now stare into the future with uncertainty. It is time that whoever becomes Kenya’s CEO next month keenly analysed how learning is conducted in our universities to tie the loose ends between academia and industry. That would partly address the issue by ensuring that Kenya’s graduates are job market-ready. Kenya’s next CEO needs to align key economic policies to the fight against unemployment. For instance, he needs to consider the impact the capping of bank interest rates has had on youth start-ups, new investments and unemployment. HIGH RISK BORROWERS When banks are not lending to youth because they have labelled them as “high-risk borrowers”, their businesses cannot grow and they will not employ other youth. Though well-intended, the cap has, unfortunately, fuelled unemployment and poverty among the youth. The fresh election is an opportunity for either President Uhuru Kenyatta or Mr Raila Odinga to restore the Kenyan dream in the youth by enacting policies that drive trade and economic growth. That will enhance Kenya’s image as an investment hub in Africa and attract foreign investors, benefiting youth economically. The youth are in dire need of a united Kenya. An inclusive Kenya that belongs to all, irrespective of tribe. They are also thirsty for a CEO willing and ready to purge corruption cartels and deliver Kenya back to the people. GRAFT Corruption is one of the key issues the youth will vote on. Graft in government diverts funds meant for development projects that create jobs for the youth into a few pockets. Should President Kenyatta be re-elected, he should be ready to make a few enemies by overhauling his government. If Raila comes in, he should roll up his sleeves and sweep away the graft cartels and give the nation a new look and vision. The youth want a nation that works for all. They want a President who will monitor his Cabinet, audit ministries and ensure State jobs are shared equitably and on merit. They want an Executive who will not collude with greedy parliamentarians to strangle the Constitution and take away the rights of ‘Wanjiku’. From the youth’s desk, Uhuru, Raila, mark your diary, your in-tray is already full. Mr Obonyo is the author of ‘Conversations About the Youth in Kenya’. raphojuma@hotmail.com.  