The Alliance Francaise, Nairobi, in partnership with the Audiovisual Section of the French Embassy in Kenya, has called for entries of their second Smartphone Film competition. This year s theme is Histoire de Familie (Family Stories/ Storo za Familia). In their first edition in 2016, the competition was organised to coincide with the 2016 French Film Festival. The theme of the competition was Rebellious Spirt , in line with that of the film festival. Just like last year s competition, it is also open to persons above 18, and a resident in Kenya. The first edition of the competition attracted around 30 entries from both amateurs and professionals.Speaking to ActScene, Harsita Waters, the head of Cultural Affairs said they aim to expose and promote young directors of short films and contribute to popularising the art of cinema thanks to the ever-present smartphone. The idea behind the competition is to push the boundaries of experimentation and imagination using minimal technical and financial input, and to recognise and award talented youth. It is also an opportunity to showcase their creativity and practice, especially the growing number of students of film, media and communication, said Ms Waters.According to Waters, this year they want to target 2nd year film students from across the country who do not have a chance to practice what they are learning.Entry is free of charge and the winner will walk home with Sh100,000, with the 2nd prize and people s choice winners receiving Sh50,000 and Sh25,000 respectively. The judges of the competition will include renowned people from the film industry in Kenya; Mwaniki Mageria, Judy Kibinge, Cajetan Boy and Rene Denn is.With an increasing number of affordable smartphones that make it possible to record and produce high quality videos, the Smartphone Film Competition aims to encourage the creation of content for and by smartphones.The Alliance Francaise remains a popular cultural venue with the Kenyan youth for its promotion of cultural and linguistic diversity through its dynamic arts programming and its French language classes, and as a space for dialogue and debate on topical societal issues.Entrants can use any software for editing, post-production or treatment of images and can also use external devices for audio recording. Films can be in English, French, Kiswahili or a mixture of these languages. Films must be entrant s own original work and must not have been previously published or distributed in any form.Entrants must submit their films by midnight, Sunday 1st October, 2017. Only one film per entrant will be accepted. All films must be shot using smartphones. Films cannot exceed 4 minutes including credits.Selection of films will be screened daily during the French Film Festival running at Alliance Fran aise Nairobi from 9 to 12 October 2017. email print email print