Kenya Ports Authority’s men’s and women’s basketball teams registered easy victories in the opening day of the Kecoso Games basketball tournament on Monday at the Jomo Kenyatta Sports Grounds, Kisumu. While the men’s team beat Kenya Airports Authority 71-56, their women counterparts humiliated KCAA 68-43 before a huge crowd. In netball, Kenya Maritime Authority shocked KPA hitting them 52-48 to continue a perfect run at these games at the same venue. Elsa Anyango was unstoppable scoring a game-high 41 points while Millicent Adhiambo controlled the midfield in this game which saw KPA’s Christine Ongiro play her heart out. Against KAA, KPA, who at first found it difficult to master the outdoor court, started slowly, trailing 11-14 in the first quarter but quickly regrouped to take the second 17-13 for a narrow 28-27 halftime lead. The dockers, who were cheered on by the huge crowd which included KPA administrative manager Jane Kamau, took command of the second half, leading their opponents 25-11 in the third and 18-17 in the fourth quarters for the big win. Victor Odendo, playing in front of a partisan home crowd, top-scored for KPA with 18 points while Airel Okal had 11 with Colins Adodi contributing 14 points for the losers. FIBA ZONE FIVE In the women’s match, KPA, who, together with their male counterparts, are using this matches as part of the preparations for the FIBA Zone Five championship to be held Uganda in a fortnight, led 17-14 in the first, and 24-07 in the second quarter for a 41-21 halftime score. Blandine Ndaya, who had a good morning, top-scored with 18 points, which included three from beyond the arch, while Annrose Mandela and Lilian Adera contributed 10 and eight points respectively. Vilma Awino and Lucy Machuma scored eight and six points respectively for the losers who are coached by national team coach Evelyn Kedogo. Other netball matches saw KCAA beat KAA 68-28, KAA beat Mosca 51-08 while Ministry of Transport and Information beat Kenya Broadcasting Corporation 37-33. In volleyball, Kenya Ports Authority maintained a perfect run with a 3-1 victory over KCAA.  