Chief Justice David Maraga has accused Inspector-General of Police Joseph Boinett of ignoring calls to beef up the security of judges and courts, exposing them to danger. In a statement issued after a day-long meeting with other members of the Judicial Service Commission (JSC), CJ Maraga said the judiciary and judges would, however, soldier on to discharge their mandates. OATHS He said they are ready to pay the ultimate price for defending the Constitution and the rule of law. “JSC notes with dismay that the Inspector-General of Police, who is expected to provide security to all government facilities, has repeatedly ignored calls to act, exposing judicial officers, property and litigants to danger,” he said. The CJ maintained that the judiciary is an arm of government equal to both the executive and the legislature. And if leaders are tired of having a “strong and independent judiciary”, he said, they should call a referendum and abolish it altogether. “Before that happens, the Judiciary will continue to discharge its mandate in accordance with the Constitution and individual oaths of office," he said. The CJ maintained that the judiciary is an arm of government equal to both the executive and the legislature. And if leaders are tired of having a “strong and independent judiciary”, he said, they should call a referendum and abolish it altogether. DEMO He said it was saddening that the judiciary and judges, especially those of the Supreme Court, have come under constant attacks, culminating in demonstrations, which were held outside the Supreme Court Building in Nairobi and in Nyeri, Nakuru and Eldoret. The protesters allied to President Kenyatta's Jubilee Party chanted slogans castigating Judge Maraga and his colleagues for overturning the president's re-election on August 8. Mr Maraga stated that  the demonstrations bordered on violence and were intended to intimidate the judiciary and individual judges. “The Judiciary has not and will never seek to direct the other arms about how to perform their functions,” he said. “In the same vein, we will not allow anybody to dictate to us how to discharge our mandate as given by the people of Kenya under the Constitution. We want to state that the rule of law must be allowed to prevail at all times.”  