Kakamega Golf Club s Joshua Ashioya recovered from three double bogeys and 10 singles to post 38 points and emerge overall winner of Kenya Communications Sports Organisations (Kecoso) tournament at the weekend.Ashioya, who made only one birdie and three pars at the par 70 Nyanza Golf Club course, beat men s winner Ramesh Karia and Maurice Oduor by a point as Wilson Njega, on 35, wound up third in men s category ahead of Prashant Thakrar (33).Betty Bisonga emerged the best lady on 33 points, beating Rosemary Obara by a point. In the guests category, G. Serem posted 35 points to beat H. Ikhohoro on countback. Leading the Kecoso members was Japheth Obonyo with a score of 34 points who won ahead of Tom Ogenche by four points. Terry Odoo, on 32, was the lady winner in the Kecoso section, two better than Shally Achieng. At Vet Lab Sports Club, X.N. Iraki was in his best form at the weekend, firing a brilliant 41 points to win fifth leg of DStv Explora Golf series. He was propelled by a brave 26 points in the first nine.Iraki birdied the first, second and seventh with a bogey at the fifth. The back nine was not however as smooth as he picked up three double bogeys and a similar number of single bogeys for 15 points. He won by two points from Francis Mwangi, while Steve Orindo beat Balsajit Sividas on countback with 37 points to finish third. In the ladies section, Bee Jones led with 35 points, and Jay Vadgama (35) took the junior title.Elsewhere, Rose Naliaka Academy girls produced fireworks in the final round for third straight victory in the annual Nancy Millar trophy golf tournament at the par 72 Karen Country Club course on Saturday.The team of Loise Akinyi, Ashley Awuor, Faith Ontune and Doris Mideva completed a 54-hole total of 214 points, to retain the 71-year-old trophy. The pair of Akinyi and Mideva carded 31 points, same as that of Ontune and Awuor for 62, having carded 78 and 74 points in the first and second rounds played on Saturday. They won by 17 points from the team of Patricia Wangongu, Rosmary Wainaina, Mukami Wangai and Melvin Steinmman who posted a total of 197 points in the three rounds. Taking the third prize with a score of 195 points was the team of Mary Kimemia, Joyce Wanjiru, Teresia Wainaina and Petty Kigwe. Fourth on 190 points was Vet Lab team of Rachel Ndei, Joyce Murigi, Frankie Gichuru and N. Njoki. The home team of Paulynne Kabuga, Rhoda Kingori, Terry Obath and Channelle Wangari, on 189 points, completed the top places. email print email print