If Gor Mahia does not win the Kenyan Premier League this season, I will lay the blame squarely on one Nick Mwendwa and the Football Kenya Federation. Last week the High Court ruled that the KPL as it is currently constituted with 18 teams is illegal and directed that the federation respects an earlier signed agreement by former federation president Sam Nyamweya and the KPL that the league was to have 16 teams until 2020. One may argue that it is the Sam Nyamweya who filed a case challenging the composition of the league in March 2017, but we all know how Mwendwa, his made it a personal agenda to force KPL to increase the number of teams.  At some point he even threatened to ban some officials, among them Gor Mahia chairman Ambrose Rachier. The effects of Mwendwa’s action saw SuperSport walking out on KPL leaving the competition heavily handicapped. Because of that, the league has lost grants from the multimillion shillings partnership with SuperSport. You will agree with me that the quality of the competition has also gone down. Following the ruling by High Court judge John Mativo, KPL went ahead and suspended matches involving Zoo Kericho and Nakumatt FC, teams whose inclusion in the league Mwendwa pushed for through the backdoor. But while the federation has said it will appeal the High Court ruling, so much damage has already been done.As it stands now, players from these two clubs are in the dark about their future, more so should the federation lose their intended appeal.  The teams will be in limbo because they have also not played in the lower tier National Super League. Who will keep a whole squad of 30 players yet they are not playing? Furthermore, the suspension of Zoo and Nakumatt means teams that had collected maximum points against them have lost the points. Gor Mahia for instance had beaten Nakumatt twice and Zoo once.  As a result they’ve lost the nine points. Which is why I say should we fail to win the 2017 title, I will squarely blame Mwendwa. Thanks to our good performance so far, we are still at the top, but Mwendwa, we want our nine points. Last year we forgave you for docking us three points which ultimately cost us an unprecedented fourth straight league title.  In my opinion, if this impasse is not solved, Mwendwa should just resign. He has already messed the game in the one year he has been at the helm. If he has to remain in Kenyan football, he should confine his activities to Kariobangi Sharks. Speaking of which, didn’t Mwendwa once say that he would quit if we lost the hosting rights for the African Nations Championships (Chan)? We have just lost it so he has no business managing our football. We wont miss you. Postscript: Happy Birthday Jacques Jakaka Tuyisenge, our able deputy captain. 
  
Whoever bids for Kenya to host any other tournament should be jailed!