Embakasi East MP Babu Owino spoke at a rally on Sunday either unaware of the likely fallout from his inflammatory language or unconcerned about consequences. And like a handful of politicians before him, he found himself in custody. He was later charged with subversion, uttering words meant “to excite disaffection against the presidency” and cause a breach of peace and incitement to violence. His case and the others we have written about prompt a question: What kind of society and politics do we want? Many Kenyans do not seem to have an answer. Those who think they know — the National Cohesion and Integration Commission and its supporters, for example — are blind to something obvious to others. That is, while we want a cohesive, prosperous society where everyone is treated equally, we are unlikely to become one where people do not insult one another. The framers and enforcers of our laws do not seem to understand that insults are part of human nature. ABUSE RIVALS As in other countries, we cannot resist putting one another down, especially in the political arena. We abuse our rivals in many ways. We question their educational achievements or suggest that they are unsuitable to govern because they are “too old”. Psychologists point to anger as one source of the insults. For Nasa supporters, seething from what they see as a stolen presidential election victory, their rage is self-explanatory. But there’s anger also that springs from a subtler source, which experts call “status insecurity”. READ: Babu Owino faces subversion, uttering abusive words charges Some people feel empowered by disparaging those with a higher socio-economic status, which in Kenya is often the fount of political power. What weapon does an indigent person or his booster have other than figuratively spitting at people who bicker about power as he starves? ETHNIC CONTEMPT Another motivation may well be an attempt at humour. When a leader referred to some judges as “wakora”, the audience at the scene burst into laughter, while others elsewhere saw it as an unforgivable insult. Still others saw it as political speech, concluding that politicking isn’t always pleasant. Some speakers may be impelled by “ethnic contempt”, but the experience of more mature democracies teaches us that suppressing political speech does not work. Police can haul politicians to court, but there is nothing they can do about the thousands of Kenyans online for whom anything goes. VERBAL ABUSE Rather than unleashing the police and prosecutors on people speaking their mind, a better option would be for targets of verbal abuse to come up with a wittier insult. What we want is not a society where citizens are afraid to speak their minds for fear of ending up in jail but a loud arena where every voice is heard. Parliament could help the courts by removing from the penal code those parts that criminalise political speech.  