Your windows allow you to enjoy the exterior beauty from the inside. But if you live next to a highway, a busy street, a nightclub, a playground or stadium, noise from the outside can be a source of discomfort if you do not do anything to reduce it. So, how do you prevent such noise from disrupting your peace? Below are some tips. CLOSE THE WINDOWS PROPERLY Mr Jeremiah Mutembei, a freelance interior designer, says that the first step in making sure your windows can block out noise is to close them properly. After closing them, ensure they are also locked to avoid any gap between the seals that might allow in noise. He says a properly locked window forms an obstacle between the noise and your ears. USE HEAVY DRAPES Mr Mutembei advises that instead of flimsy curtains, go for heavy drapes. This is because, though attractive, light curtains provide little relief from noise pollution since they are often made of cotton or linen, which do not absorb as much noise as you might want in environments where there’s too much noise. “The amount of acoustically-absorptive material inside a building determines the amount of noise that gets into a room. Using dense, heavy fabric that has a textured surface will greatly help. If you know how to sew, you can add an extra layer of dense fabric to a curtain,” says Mr Mutembei. In addition to curtains, you can use rugs, carpets and houseplants to help reduce the noise in a room. CREATE YOUR OWN NOISE Alluding to the adage, “If you can’t beat them, join them”, Mr Mutembei suggests that people living next to, say a night club, create their own “noise” indoors. “A fan that whirs gently can help reduce the external noise and act as a sleep aid. Similarly, playing soft music can help neutralise the noise coming from the outside,” he says, adding that instead of listening to the music playing outside, you end up listening to what you’re playing. USE TECHNOLOGY Mr Devendra Ladha, a director at Prime Aluminium Casement Ltd, an aluminium and glass façade company, says it is quite expensive to cut out external sounds completely, adding that the technology available locally can only reduce sound to about 40 per cent. The technologies are double glazing and laminating. Double glazing: Double-glazed windows consist of two layers of glass with a layer of inert gas between them. Mr Ladha says this provides almost twice the insulation provided by ordinary glass. Double-glazed glass reduces the transfer of heat and sound between the house and the outside environment. Lamination: This involves sandwiching two glass panels using a plastic film known as acoustic PVB. The layer has acoustic properties, making it ideal for sound absorption.   “The acoustic properties of the plastic film make lamination more effective in curbing noise pollution than double glazing. However, the glass is not everything,” he says. The frame plays a big role in sound insulation. International frames, which are usually tested and certified, come lined with rubber gaskets while most local frames do not have gaskets. “The rubber gaskets make the international frames more robust and effective in sound reduction,” says Mr Ladha. When it comes to cost, the imported frames are more expensive than local ones. Nevertheless, the fact that they are internationally certificate specifying the window’s properties including noise reduction which is measured in decibels (db.), endears them to most people. Seeing that the cost of certified systems is prohibitive to most Kenyans, what would Mr Devendra advise? “If you cannot afford the certified frames, go for the local ones but make sure whoever is installing them uses many gaskets so that the window is well sealed. You can also do a double window system, says Mr Ladha. This reduces external sound but still allows you to see the outside. However, he adds that you should not to make a decision on the type of windows you want based solely on cost. In the overall construction of a house, normal windows account for four to 10 per cent. With enhanced windows, that percentage might rise to 15 or 20, but your comfort level will multiply by much more.” He adds that the more effective the system is in reducing sound, the more effective it also is in thermal control. This reduces reliance on air conditioners and reduces the overall cost of maintaining a house. Besides, you do not have to worry about rain water entering your house because, with the gaskets, your windows are watertight.  