Kenyan Public Relations executive Catherine Karanja who was stranded in Florida with her friend Maryanne Michuki as a powerful hurricane approached the US Coast, finally made it out — but it was not easy as she writes in this second instalment of her experience. When our airline announced plans to cancel all flights out of Florida from September 8, we knew we had to make it for the outbound flight to Dubai scheduled for 9pm on Thursday night. Under normal circumstances, this is an easy drive that should take between 40 and 55 minutes driving north on the wide interstate highway number 95. EVACUATION But these were not normal circumstances and news reports were indicating heavy traffic on the highway as residents and visitors flee from Miami Beach ahead of Hurricane Irma expected to make landfall today. All around us, tourists and fellow guests were making arrangements to leave the island early and we too began making plans for early departure. We made changes for our airport transfer, moving the departure time up to 2pm to allow us at least 5 hours to get to Fort Lauderdale International Airport. We thought we had the situation in hand, until at 12 noon when our hotel informed us that due to the mandatory evacuation order for Miami-Dade area, they were closing the hotel. CALM We still had two hours to go before we could get transport and we had nowhere to go. In the end we agreed to move to the hotel next door. Miami remained beautiful all day Thursday despite the approaching hurricane. The sun shone bright and warm and the sea sparkled. The only hint of the storm to come was in the humidity and the frantic preparations around the buildings on Ocean Drive, the street along the beach. BUSINESSESMaintenance crew worked silently and grimly, putting up boards and corrugated iron sheets to protect windows and doors of the hotels and shops. They were methodically removing lamps and fixtures and moving furniture and fittings into the buildings for shelter. The streets were deserted; all visitors were long gone. At 1.30pm, our temporary hotel also began closing down. In the end, we had to wait for our transport on the hot humid sidewalk. JOBSHurricane Irma has wrought great havoc on the economy of Florida. Workers in the sea side towns are going to lose their daily earnings for all the days the towns are evacuated. Slanta, a pleasant girl who works at the hotel’s bar, told us she would be out of a job for all the days the hurricane raged. She had made arrangements to drive her car to a friend’s garage for safety and was going to go inland to join her family in a safer area of Florida but she would be jobless. The driver who picked us told us he had never seen the streets as empty as they were today. The area has not had such a bad hurricane for more than 20 years. AIRPORTSIn the end, our early transfer to the airport at Fort Lauderdale paid off. We made it with time to spare. The airport was teeming with hundreds of passengers trying to get onto flights to anywhere out of Florida. Most people were travelling with their children and their dogs; pets cannot be left behind during a hurricane and owners must plan for their evacuation. The stories were heartbreaking. One old lady leaning on a stick kept asking for help to get on a flight to anywhere “I am 75, my husband is 82. We cannot stay. Please help us,” she begged. Her husband sat on a wheelchair silently by her side waiting for help. In the end, the airlines could not find them seats. FRANTICLia was at the airport waiting to get on the flight with us. She was accompanied by her husband and their two sons. She offered us some of the food she had packed for her family. She told us they got to Florida on Tuesday, on the very day Hurricane Irma was upgraded from category 4 to 5 (the highest level). They had plans to stay for a week’s vacation. They had spent two days — Tuesday and Wednesday — trying to get tickets for a flight back out of Florida. They managed to get onto the flight. FLIGHTAn elegant lady in an orange dress waited quietly at the airline counter, hoping for a last minute ticket. She waited a long time and finally walked away in tears. Distress makes people talk to each other and empathise. My friend Maryanne and I sat on the floor at the airport and chatted with strangers from all over world as we waited four and a half hours for the gates to open. Finally, it was 7pm. We were cleared to get on the flight. Finally, we were on our way home. TRIBUTEThe real heroes of Hurricane Irma are the people of Miami and Florida. They remained calm and kind to visitors despite being under immense panic and pressure. At least 5.6 million people — a quarter of the population — had been told to evacuate. We pay special tribute to the selfless Emirates Airline crew that flew into Florida to make the last flight out possible for all of us. Under the rules of aviation, they could not be on duty flying back immediately. So they remained in Florida to face the storm. We pray for them and indeed trust they will remain safe. Catherine Karanja is managing partner at Ogilvy PR. The first instalment of her article published in the Daily Nation on Friday is available online at www.nation.co.ke   Florida's governor said all of the state's 20.6 million inhabitants should be prepared to evacuate.