I am 22 years old. I met a girl four years ago. We dated for around six months after that. She was at university while I was in college. However, our relationship became increasingly weak. But after two years, we started dating again. Our relationship has been on-and-off. Recently, she told me that she doesn’t love me anymore. I love her very much and she remains my first love. I have tried looking for another woman but in vain. What should I do since I love her so much?  Hi, What really makes two people know that they love each other? What constitutes lasting love between a man and a woman. I believe that love must arise from a clear, conscious decision to commit to your partner, regardless. That is why the phrases “in good times and in bad times” and “in sickness and in health” are included in the marriage vows. Second, there must be certain areas or common areas that the two agree on. This is what forms a clear bond between the two people dating. Each partner should ensure that the things that make this common bond are strong and lasting if the relationship is to endure the normal ups and downs that follow. Sex, beauty, status, and affluence are among the factors that don’t make for the type of foundation that make a relationship last. Sex, for example, depends on the quality of the relationship. What I cannot tell is what drew the two of you together, which is an important factor in the survival of any relationship. Second, any connection is as strong as the bond that holds it together. It seems to me that your girlfriend does not see herself connected to you in this way. I suggest that you let her go while you re-examine what she felt was missing in your relationship. You might learn a few things that will make you wiser next time. Just feeling that you love her is not enough to make a relationship last. My sweetheart’s abusive past is making intimacy difficult in our relationship Hi Pastor Kitoto, I have been dating a divorcee who has a child from her previous marriage, during which she suffered domestic abuse. She is very caring and loving towards me and her son. Although I have no child of my own, I love them both. We have a great time together, except when it is time to get intimate. We can engage in foreplay for hours on end, but when it comes to having intercourse, she starts crying, which makes me worried about her. I feel as if I am reviving the trauma she suffered in her previous relationship. What can I do because I love her very much and cannot imagine cheating on her?  Hi, Thank you for sharing. I would like to start by saying that the effects of divorce take long to heal for many who have been through it. It is clear from that your girlfriend has some issues that need to be sorted out. Divorce hurts, both emotionally and physically. The effects can last a long time, depending on how close the two people were. It is important to also note that future connections for a divorcee depends on how they dealt with their past issues and the resultant wounds. Your girlfriend’s reaction to you might not necessarily be stemming from what happened in her previous marriage. In fact, her reaction could be the result of what happened much earlier in her life. If so, this could have been part of the reason for what she is going through in her relationships, including yours. Before assuming that her current crying is part of what happened in her previous marriage, you need to conduct further investigation. Fear also has a way of affecting how a person perceives and approaches sexual intimacy. These fears could be having many causes, so it would not be right to speculate. I suggest that you avoid making any sexual advances and instead do the following: First, put the relationship on a sound foundation through frank and open disclosures of the past. Second, approach a mature counsellor that she will be comfortable with to help her on her journey to emotional healing. Third, if you are a prayerful person, seek God’s help and a good spiritual mentor to help your girlfriend confront her past. Finally, give the relationship time to heal, get grounded and build confidence. I believe that if given time, sex becomes more meaningful in marriage. To most spouses, sex becomes meaningful when a they have built trust, relax and overcome fears and any feelings of condemnation. I wish you the best. I love a man 10 years my senior but I’m not ready to marry him just yet Hi Kitoto, I have been dating this man since March last year. He has a stable job while I am barely three months into my job. Our relationship was going well – until I introduced him to my relatives. My family rejected him because he is from a different tribe. The church has asked me to declare my stand on him so that they can help us but my fear is that he is 10 years older than me, so I am afraid of introducing him to my others friends although deep inside I know that I love him. We have been given less than two weeks to declare our stand. I don’t want to lose him, but at the same time I fear marrying him. He stood by me through difficult times when I was job hunting until I settled down in my job. Kindly help me out.  Hi, Marriage should never be forced on anyone, and neither should anyone force themselves on someone. In addition, marriage must be a conscious decision by two people to spend the rest of their lives together, regardless of life’s problems. What I see are three obstacles you must overcome: First is your parents’ influence. As much as you are required to honour your parents, the love is between you and your partner. It is you to convince your parents that he is good for you. Parents have a way of reading one’s fears and assumptions and somehow want to find out one’s true convictions. In the end, it is your convictions that will prevail. Second is your fear of marrying and being identified as having married someone much older than you. If you are convinced that this man is too old for you, then it won’t help you one bit to go ahead and marry him, even if your friends think he is the greatest person ever to live. Third is your failure to define for yourself what love truly is. What gives a marriage its identity? If the convictions of the two people in the relationship are flawed, then their relationship will follow suit. That is why you cannot stand your ground in regard to your man. You have to be convinced before anyone else convinces you. I believe that no one should force you to make a decision regarding marriage in a hurry. You have to be sure of the reasons why you want to get married to this man. Your love for him is not enough to sustain a relationship. It is important to be sure about marrying him before you can convince anyone else, including your parents. If you marry, the marriage will be about you and your man; the others are spectators.  Send your relationship questions to dn2@ke.nationmedia.com  