Comedian Chipukeezy was last week trolled online after users thought that he was embellishing the story of how he met one of the world s most popular standup acts, Kevin Hart. Chipukeezy was on the AM Live Show retelling how he met Kevin Hart, when fans called him out on what they thought were lies. I was doing short people jokes and at the end of the set I remember saying I m the real African version of Kevin Hart so when you see him tell him I m looking for him, so after the show this white lady comes up to me and says would you like to see him tomorrow? Chipukeezy narrated that he booked a flight to LA to see Hart. But when he got to the airport, he had already missed his flight but lucky for him a passenger was removed from the flight in order for him to make the journey to see his idol. When he got to LA, Chipukeezy says that he had forgotten to carry money and couldn t pay the cab fare which was $100 (Sh10,000) from the airport, but he showed the cab driver a YouTube clip to prove he is a comedian, going to meet Mr Hart. The driver wished him well and went on his way. He had also shown the YouTube clip at the airport before a passenger was alledgedly removed from the flight because of him.Some fans however refused to believe the whole story and sought to set him straight.Princess Nelly Nelson wrote on Facebook Yes I will agree on seeing Kevin, but the story is so weird and he is extremely adding salt. Especially in the YouTube thing. How many people in the world are Youtubers for real? Many with million views and you expect someone to treat you extra good because you have a YouTube channel aki wakenya hua tanabebwa Ufala sana, Which white man would probably be deboarded for Chipukeezy to meet K.Hart. And that 100 dollars for a cab...Lakini huyu jamaa ametuenjoy. In his interview at Ebru/Kiss TV I think alisema he met Kev for three minutes leo ni 10..the next interview 2 hours, complained MG Otieno.Another user, Victor Nyaata wrote Hahahahaha! This here is the best joke I have ever heard. Kwanza, $100 is Ksh10,000. I wonder which distance this is that could charge $100. Lie number one. Lie number 2: No airline in the world can unseat a passenger, for whatever reason (unless it s a security or emergency procedure) for anyone. Chipo wewe ni rafiki yangu lakini hapa umeskuma sana. email print email print