It is another season of unrest in Kenya’s nascent online taxi hailing business after the drivers called a strike from September 11, complaining about reduced earnings. This has been precipitated by an apparent ‘price war’ among the key taxi hailing application firms as they seek a bigger share of the growing market. The drivers, operating under Taxify, Uber, Mondo Ride, Maramoja and Little, are agitating under the umbrella of Digital Taxi Association of Kenya. They claim that, due to the reduced fares across the board, their earnings have been compressed while the firms continue to earn “high commissions” on rides. The typical capitalist response would be to ask the drivers to take a walk and seek deals that give them better returns elsewhere. Heck, they can even go ahead and form a collective, complete with their own, driver-friendly app! CONTRACTS In any case, their relationship with the taxi firms is based on contracts with clear terms and conditions. Most importantly, the contracts are not cast in stone and can be voided by either party walking out. But it is more complex than that: The devil is in the ownership models under which most of the drivers operate. To borrow from my former boss at Safaricom, Michael Joseph, some ‘Kenyan peculiarities’ are also at play. I would even go further and suggest that the bane of the industry is what I would call ‘ matatunisation’ of the business. REBATES A talk with most of the taxi hailing app firms will inform you that any time they introduce an offer or promotion, they have an in-built device that ensures the driver’s take is unchanged. This is called a guarantee or rebate. But the tragedy in Kenya is that the typical taxi driver is not the owner of the car. Most of the owners are well-heeled individuals who see the online cab hailing business as the latest ticket to easy money. Typically, these investors own fleets of cars, which they register with an online taxi app and hire drivers to do the heavy lifting for them. Since the owners are the signatories to the contracts, they are the ones who receive the rebates or guarantees. Ordinarily, it is expected that these are passed on to the drivers. MATATU-TYPE OPERATION In typical display of classical Kenyan avarice, however, this is seldom the case. Instead, most fleet owners run a typical matatu-type operation: Drivers are slapped with a daily target and compensated with whatever they make on top of that. Naturally, when the rebates are taken out of this total take by the fleet owners, and in the face of heightened competition as the market gets more crowded and riders have more options (meaning less rides), drivers’ earnings have tended to dwindle. They increasingly have to work longer hours to meet their targets and make something on top. Those who maintain the cars are at an even bigger disadvantage. More frustrating for the non-owner drivers (who are the majority) is that, unlike their matatu peers, they lack avenues for short-changing (read stealing from) the car owners as the apps provide a clear audit trail of trips and earnings. PROTECT JOBS In cases such as when the rider is a corporate client or paying by credit card, there is no interaction between the driver and cash, limiting the pilferage and impropriety common with matatus. So, we end up with a non-car owner driver trapped in an abusive relationship with little room for manoeuvre; hence the palpable angst that informs the raucous picketing—and the misdirected anger at the taxi app firms. Any simplistic regulatory resolution that sets price, as suggested by the drivers, will stifle competition and go against free market principles—a position buttressed by the latest pronouncement by the Competition Authority of Kenya (CAK). Equally, it is critical to protect the thousands of jobs this innovation has created and the livelihoods it continues to support since its introduction  in Kenya about two years ago, besides greatly improving urban mobility.  Mr Akumu, a former ‘Nation’ business editor, is a strategic communication consultant. washington.akumu@mediaedgeke.com.  