It is obvious that Kenyans appreciate devolved governments. They also expect much from them. However, there is a great deal that counties can do and governors have a lot to prove. We have already seen what can be achieved with determination and dedication in some of the counties. Governors, including those who have embarked on their last terms, have a legacy to work. The same goes for those who have higher aspirations in politics or any other posting. This term will be one of the hardest for governors. The period between 2013 and 2017 opened the eyes of wananchi. Scrutiny will be higher and non-performing leaders will have a difficult time, not just at the next election but also during their term in office. One of the challenges that encumbered the first county governments included poor budgetary absorption. ACCOUNTING Many counties also faced the challenge of accounting for the funds allocated to them, under-performance in terms of development, corruption and health workers strikes. Others recorded higher recurrent expenditure compared to what they spent on development. The demand for jobs in county governments themselves and the industries expected to come up will be a waking nightmare for many governors because a way must be found to engage especially the many unemployed youth and adults. If you move around the country and closely examine some of the needs of the people and the magnitude of the expectations, it is evident that governors will come under great pressure. However, to overcome it, they will need to crackdown on corruption and put measures in place to prevent it. STRATEGIC PLANS They must also put in place strategic plans that are geared at spurring development. This will, in turn, require broad investments. If one examines the infrastructure requirements and the need to grow industries in counties — especially in agriculture and hospitality — there is plenty in the governors’ hands. How to achieve all these is a huge challenge. But the governors and leaders that excel at the county level have a huge opportunity to grow. The county leaders have a date with destiny. It is not an easy job but it is doable. However, although the leaders in these counties have the huge opportunity, they also face many inherent risks. STAFFING If you look at the staffing, which some have found obviously necessary to change especially at the top levels, there is indeed a rough road ahead. This, coupled with political rivalry that will necessarily encumber many of the counties as politicians position themselves for future contests, can only mean that the going will be tough. This is especially so when the 2022 election dynamics are considered. Consider also that the funding to the counties cannot meet all the desires and attracting requisite investments to tame some of the challenges, such as unemployment, will not be a walk in the park. Nonetheless, county leaders will be wise to tame the evils that were pointed out to the first set of the devolved units and use the funds allocated to them with a lot of wisdom and foresight. Besides, they must also act as catalysts for some of the possible industries in their regions that inevitably include agriculture that seriously need a make-over to include value-addition and searching for diverse markets including in other countries. The job ahead is quite demanding. The writer is a researcher and consultant in Nairobi. hmikiara@gmail.com  