Debate over the suitability of the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) to conduct the repeat presidential election should be handled soberly. The Supreme Court ruling that annulled President Uhuru Kenyatta’s re-election emphatically declared that the electoral commission committed irregularities and illegalities that collectively denigrated the integrity of the August 8 poll. The September 1 verdict clearly puts the IEBC in the dock. It lost all the reputation and lacks moral probity to conduct the election. NASAHowever, the same court directed the IEBC to conduct the rerun poll according to the stipulations in the final text of the full ruling expected in the coming days. But the political class has turned the matter into a nasty fight. The National Super Alliance (Nasa), which had petitioned and won the case, has decreed that the IEBC as currently constituted cannot supervise the election. In contrast, the Jubilee Party has vowed that it will not allow change at the IEBC; that the commission must be left intact to prepare and superintend the polls. PREPARATIONIt is now obvious that the two sides cannot agree on anything, even where facts are clear-cut. The country is walking on a slippery path. The countdown to the election is on yet there are many activities to be done — such as contracting for the printing of ballot papers, hiring presiding and returning officers and other personnel — all of which will take time and require singular focus. Politicians should not derail the process with unnecessary demands but that is not to deflect from the fact that punishment is imperative. CRIME IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati has declared that heads will roll; that those found culpable will face the consequences of their actions. This cannot wait. Since Mr Chebukati has asked the Director of Public Prosecutions to investigate the matter, this must be done expeditiously and individuals found liable punished. Mr Chebukati and team should come out quickly with a road map for the rerun. They must tell the nation how they will repair the IEBC’s credibility and also reach out to the political players and agree on the way forward.  