The euphoria amongst NASA supporters that has followed the Supreme Court decision to annul the August 8, 2017 Presidential Election should be expected. This is the first Presidential Election in Africa to be annulled and perhaps only the third world-wide. But even as the enthusiasts celebrate this decision, a grave injustice is being overlooked. On the day of the pre-trial conference the Deputy Chief Justice, on national television, emphasised the need to comply with the strict timelines set by the law in prosecuting and determining the Petition. She referred to the 2013 situation which was met with wide spread criticism when the court gave a summary of its decision, followed by the detailed judgement days later, and stated that this time the court would give a full reasoned judgment in the first instance. At the conclusion of the oral hearings, the Chef Justice appeared to reiterate his Deputy’s promise by stating that there was going to be no sleep for the judges in the next two days given the fact that they would be burning the midnight oil to deliver the full judgment. REFERENCE It was therefore astonishing that when the court convened on 1st September to deliver the much awaited judgment, the majority decision, which carried the day, was a three page document entitled “Determination of Petition Without Reasons”. Apart from outlining general Constitutional and legal statements, the document makes no reference to a single factual or evidential item in the proceedings. Granted, the Constitution sets very strict timelines for the hearing and determination of a Presidential Election Petition. The entire process has to be completed within 14 days of the filing of the Petition. While it is understandable that within the short period it may be difficult to write a comprehensive judgment, it is inexcusable not to offer even a summarised version of the decision, which the two judges who dissented did. NATIONAL VALUES Article 10 of the Constitution makes the national values and principles of governance binding on all persons wherever any of them applies or interprets the Constitution. The national values and principles include the rule of law, participation of the people, transparency and accountability. When they set down reasons for their dissenting opinions, the two judges were being transparent and accountable. They were saying to the parties in the case, Kenyans in general and the world at large, here are the reasons for the decision we have reached. Judge us by that. Read them. Analyse them. Critique them. The rule of law enjoys pride of place in Chapter Two of the Constitution of the Republic for good reason. It is our commitment as a people to having the conduct of our affairs guided by the law. FIDELITY TO THE LAW To conclude the single most important case in Kenya’s history by simply reading out the issues and the orders made by the majority is unprecedented and totally wrong. It does not foster fidelity to the law. It creates the impression that deciding cases is some sort of lottery as opposed to a serious undertaking where the evidence is analysed, the law considered and applied to the evidence before reaching definite conclusions. That the case had the entire nation captivated bears no repetition. All television stations were airing it. DECISION It is the people’s right to participate not in the decision making but at the very least to discuss the decision of the court. If the two judges could give their reasons albeit in abbreviated form, why not the majority? Some may even be said to be an abdication of responsibility. The Supreme Court is not just any court. It is the highest court. The Apex Court as it refers frequently to itself. It must set the standards for the other courts. The Supreme Court Act which, together with the Constitution sets out how the Supreme Court operates, provides that the role of the Court as the final judicial authority is to, among other things, assert the Supremacy of the Constitution and the sovereignty of the people. OBJECTIVE Does reading out orders without any sort of reasoning help achieve this objective? The more serious criticism, however, is the fact that the IEBC is expected to conduct an election within 60 days without knowing precisely what irregularities and illegalities occurred in the election held on 8th August 2017. How are they to avoid making the same mistakes? What were the acts and omissions the majority was unhappy about? True, the reasons are to be given within 21 days but pray tell, what is the IEBC to do in the meantime? Freeze the preparations until the 4 judges share their wisdom? Dr Bagaka is a governance expert  