Locko Samba Charles Arthur, stage name Locko, is a young Cameroonian artiste who is also still young in the industry. At 25, he has emerged as a musical force from the West African nation despite only being in the music industry for three years now. His songs, including "Ndutu", "Sawa Romance" and "Suppoter", are considered Afro pop and R&amp;B. This earned him a place in Coke Studio Africa 2017, as Cameroon get to feature for the first time.A music lover since he was a child, he never have a chance to express it because his parents never allowed him to. Even though he comes from a family where music has always been very present (amateur choir members and instrumentalists), he was mostly influenced by his then young uncles selection of music, which leaned towards American R&amp;B and pop music. Makoussa was more of his parents and older folks kind of music. I couldn t sing in musical competitions or variety shows. I did eight months in the church choir because everything is very square, and I wasn t comfortable. Music is something very liberal for me not this is your voice you should only sing in this range, he says.Around the age of 17, people used to tell Locko that he sounded a lot like Chris Brown, and it would make him so happy and flattered. One of his friends elder brother called him aside to give him some advice. He asked me if I thought it was a good thing to hear people comparing me to Chris Brown. The way he looked at me told me there was something wrong. I was confused. The he told me If someone tells you you sound like someone else, you should feel bad. You should strive to have your own place in the world. He told me it would be useless for me to try and be a copycat of someone else, he says.At that point, he started listening to African music only, and especially Cameroonian music, for a little over a year. This was like a training period that formed a new style of music in him, which became a combination of all the music he had come to listen to.His bedroom and other personal spaces were the only places he could practice music the way he liked. After completing his A-levels, he gained entrance into the National Advanced School of Engineering in Yaound (Nationale Sup rieure Polytechnique de L Universit de Yaound ). He had also dreamt of being an astronaut or astrophysicist. The music, however, kept growing in him fervently.The course became very difficult for him because many times he wasn t concentrating in class, his mind being on music. He would write down lyrics as they came to mind. When he couldn t handle it anymore, he decided to delve into music. When I started my career, my mother wasn t okay with it, but I m the kind of person who wants to prove that what I felt was right. It was difficult to stand before her and say this was my choice and I wouldn t follow what she wanted, he says. We made a deal that I would do music but would also have to complete my studies. I m just waiting to get to a point where I am comfortable with my career to study management. I decided to keep my name (Locko) because I would like to be authentic throughout my career. Everything has been going pretty fast and I am enjoying it. He doesn t want to disappoint in his country s Coke Studio Africa debut and appreciates the open-minded yet professional setting around the project. It has pushed him to discover new skills and meet extraordinary people. Tresor Riziki (Congolese-born musician, based in South Africa) is so talented and I am excited that people will listen to the song we did. It s a beautiful song that I wouldn t have done alone. This is the power of collaboration, he says.Nigerian producer MasterKraft listened to one of Locko s songs, and got him to feature on a collaboration track with Dela Maranga titled Me &amp; You, off his Unlimited mixtape. The three met at Coke Studio Africa 2017.Besides music, Locko has also not shied away from addressing social issues in Cameroon. He raised his voice against the cultural practice of female genital mutilation. It s not easy giving your voice as a public figure, because people judge you very harshly. In Cameroon, you must look and act like what the people want you to be, but I think FGM is something wrong that is done to women. I decided to sensitise my followers against it once I heard about it, he says.He says the first word that comes to his mind about his experience in Kenya is karibu. Everyone was so welcoming to him that it eased the working condition while he was here. email print email print