Society’s understanding of mental disorders is not well defined and it is about time we asked health experts to help in educating the public. Mental conditions are illnesses like any other; they just happen to affect the brain. However, unlike other illness such as malaria, where it is easy to establish the cause, the same does not go for mental disorders. They are extremely subjective, making it difficult to pinpoint the precise reason that caused the disorder in the first place. Generally, though, it has been found that some the causes can be genetic or the illness could be latent, only triggered by external factor. Depression is the most common illness, affecting 300 million people around the world. The most complex and severe mental disorders are bipolar and psychoses, both of which society is shying away from addressing, especially in developing countries such as Kenya. BIPOLAR DISORDER Bipolar disorder is characterised by episodes where the person’s mood and activity levels fluctuate significantly. The illness manifests itself through a combination of elevated moods, increased energy and activity which is manic, then low moods, decreased energy and activity which is depression. A person can also suffer from only manic episodes. Symptoms of bipolar also include irritable moods, decreased need for sleep, loss of social inhibition, impulsive reckless behaviour and inflated self-esteem. Fortunately, just like other illness of the body, treatment is available for bipolar disorder. The most important consideration to remember is that if your loved one is manifesting such symptoms, encourage them to seek medical assistance. Psychoses includes schizophrenia and are often characterised by distorted thoughts and perceptions as well as disturbed emotions and behaviour. HALLUCINATION One of the symptoms of psychoses which is widely misunderstood is hallucination. Just like joint pains can be a symptom of malaria, it so happens that hearing, seeing or feeling things that are not there is one of the symptoms for psychoses. Experiencing delusions is another symptom that has seen psychoses patients stigmatised. However, if we do not discriminate against those who suffer from malaria, there is no reason why psychoses patients should be treated differently. What patients need the most is timely treatment. If someone is manifesting these symptoms, it would help if those close to them do not profile them using stereotypes. What they are experiencing remains true to them, but the reality is that they are not thinking rationally. HOSTILE Additionally, carers should desist from being hostile or manhandling the ailing person as this can trigger violent reactions. All too often, we have seen people with psychoses subjected to unnecessary physical violence or being restrained in inhumane ways. Remember that that person is a fellow human being; they are just unwell. Let us have empathy and treat them with respect and dignity. Like other medical conditions, those suffering from mental illnesses need to take their medication as prescribed, and religiously attend the follow-up appointments. If this is not done, symptoms can recur or get worse, making it all the more important for the patient and their loved ones to be educated on early detection of the symptoms of a relapse. Of paramount importance is for the person to avoid alcohol and recreational substances. MEDICATION Regrettably, taking the medication and avoiding these substances are the biggest challenges facing medical professionals in this area. Taking alcohol and other substances counteracts the medication, making the symptoms worse. This makes it vital for the public to appreciate that the patient, as well as those close to them, need support and empathy, not castigation. Those close to them ought to play a part in making them feel that they are always part of the community despite the medical challenges that they face. In the final analysis, the public will do well to remember that medical disorders are illnesses like any other, they just happen to affect the brain. This article was compiled with the help of a clinical pharmacist. The writer works with international businesses on commercial litigation. gladysburini1@gmail.com  