Police in Lamu have arrested six suspected drug barons and peddlers in a crackdown launched this week. Mr Mohamed Twahir Alii, Mr Hisham Athman Abdallah, Mr Imran Mohamed Islam, Mr Feiswal Mohamed Islam, Mr Ali Hassan and Mr Said Abdallah Mohamed were arrested on Thursday evening when police raided their house in Lamu town. COURT Lamu County Commissioner Gilbert Kitiyo on Friday confirmed the arrests, saying Lamu West police chief  Pius Mbithi led the raid. “They are still being probed by our CID officers and they will be arraigned any time from now. The operation continues until the drugs are eliminated and offenders brought to book,” said Mr Kitiyo. During the raid, Mr Mbithi and 14 other officers found bhang and equipment used in smoking and sniffing drugs. Mr Kitiyo said the six suspects were among key drug traffickers who have been on police radar for long. He said similar arrests had been effected in Faza and Kizingitini in Lamu East early this week and saw majority players in the illegal trade arraigned in court. CHIEFS The county chief said other suspects were still being grilled by the county criminal investigations officers. He said the war on narcotics had been intensified in all parts of the county and asked drug barons and peddlers to leave the county. He also challenged drug peddlers to surrender to the police for amnesty before they are caught. He said they were targeting all drug-trafficking hotspots in the county and vowed to arrest all traffickers and peddlers. He said he had also asked chiefs and their assistants to take the lead in the anti-narcotics fight in their area. COVER-UP But Mr Kitiyo said the war was being inhibited by locals who preferred to cover up drug lords instead of reporting them to the police. He said the drug menace had ruined the lives of thousands of youth in Lamu. “We need to ascertain and be sure that we close down all drug dens and arrest all barons and peddlers. Our core objective is to ensure Lamu is a drug-free zone,” he said. “I call on members of the public to cooperate with police and be ready to volunteer information that will assist in making the war on drugs a success.”  