Here’s why Amina is leaving her show of five years Capital FM radio host Amina Abdi Rabar will soon be off the air on the popular radio show, Hits not Homework, and Showbuzz has partly learnt why. According to a reliable source, Amina feels she has outgrown the show. Amina has been hosting the show for the past five years and expanded her career beyond the studio to singing, emceeing, doing voice overs to hosting television shows which she currently does at K24 and Maisha Magic Annabele Onyango welcomes baby boy Fashion stylist Annabele Onyango has welcomed her firstborn child, a boy, and fans and her celebrity friends alike are falling over themselves to congratulate her. Annabele revealed the face of her bundle of joy on Instagram last Thursday with a caption that read: “Quietly while you were asleep the moon and I were talking. I asked that she’d always keep you protected. She promised you her light, that you so gracefully carry. You bring your light and shine like morning.” - The Sweetest Gift Kenzo Taya (strong light) joined @marek__ and I exactly one week ago on August 31st. He is our sweetest gift.” Onyango wrote. Congratulatory messages soon started pouring in. Fellow fashion stylist Wambui Thimba said “Congratulations. He’s beautiful,” while singer Karun Mungai excitedly said “Aw yay he’s here. Congrats Annabele and well done,” Founder of fashion brand KikoRomeo Ann McCreath wrote “How beautiful and peaceful he is. Welcome to the world Kenzo Taya,” while Sauti Sol band member Bien Aime Barasa said “The ovaries in my head are exploding.” Others who offered their congratulatory messages were Janet Mbugua, Laura Walubengo, Edith Kimani, Anyiko Owoko and more. *** Kenya and Nigeria partner in efforts to compensate music video creatives The Audio Visual Rights Society of Kenya (AVRIM) and Copyright Society of Nigeria (COSON) have partnered in efforts to see music video producers and directors compensated for their creativity. The partnership became official last week on Tuesday and in future seeks to ensure owners of music videos earn royalties. “Kenya is a little behind when it comes to realising intellectual property rights especially in music; we have not been incentivising music video directors and producers. We are now telling Kenyans it’s about time to start appreciating their roles for how they bring music videos to life, their ingenuity in keeping us entertained,” said AVRIM CEO Liz Lenjo. Speaking at the agreement signing, Chief Executive Officer, COSON, Chinedu Angus Chukwuji said the first order of business will be replicating the concepts that have worked in Nigeria to Kenya. “Whatever natural resources we have as a nation like minerals will someday dry up, but one treasure that will never dry up is the mind; you can never stop mining the treasure of the mind. Some of the wealthiest people we have today are those that trade in intellectual property,” he said. He continued “One of the things we would want to see entrenched in Kenya is that owners of musical videos begin to earn income from their creations. Music videos celebrate and uplift our culture and history, these creators deserve some sort of compensation, if you don’t the ink of ingenuity will disappear because there is no moral booster. You can’t pick their material and put it on your platform and say go home and God bless you, they have families and that is their pension.” Chukwuji said. *** Jack on the Beat joins Kaka Empire Producer Jack on the Beat has officially joined the artiste management label Kaka Empire. The producer now joins heavyweights on the label like singer Avril, rapper Femi One, Timmy T Dat and comedian Owago Nyiro. Jack on the Beat will be heading Kaka Empire Studios located on Ngong Road. Kaka Empire made the announcement on Instagram. “Welcome to the family @jackjackonthebeat. We are super excited that you get to join us and head our new studios, Kaka Empire Studios. Fam, help us welcome him to the family. Karibu Jack. #JackJackOnThe Beat,” the caption read. Jack on the Beat is behind popular songs like Bruz Newton’s Zigwembe, Femi One’s Tippy Toe, rapper Collo’s Bazokizo and Fena Gitu’s Sema Ng’we. ***  