The Supreme Court’s decision to annul last month’s presidential election results was greeted by shock and disappointment in areas perceived to be Jubilee Party strongholds. In the South Rift region, for instance, Jubilee leaders described the judgement as a “political decision”. In Kericho, former Roads minister Franklin Bet, Ainamoi MP Sylvanus Maritim, his Konoin counterpart Brighton Yegon and former Kipkelion MP Magerer Langat however asked residents to remain calm. “As believers of democracy, we accept the judgement. We however ask our supporters to maintain peace and wait for the elections. "I can assure you that President Uhuru Kenyatta will win,” Mr Langat said. CRITICSIn Kisii, a section of Jubilee leaders among them Mr Charles Nyachae, who chaired the defunct Commission on the Implementation of the Constitution, said he read “substantial malice in the ruling”. “As a lawyer, I feel the court was in its right frame to make whatever judgement it deemed fit, but as a politician it reeked of nothing but pure politics,” Mr Nyachae said. He said the court largely dwelt on “generalities” to nullify the presidential poll results instead of pointing out areas that needed attention during a repeat poll. “The Judges did not publish the full ruling, instead, declaring the summary verdict because the law did not allow them to decide the case later than Friday,” he said. VOTERSMr Nyachae added: “I listened to the ruling keenly and deduced that [Chief] Justice David Maraga and his team did not aptly capture the grey areas they want IEBC to address in the repeat poll.” In Kiambu County, residents huddled in small groups in many areas discussing the judgement in hushed tones. Although they expressed their disappointment, they vowed to turn out in large numbers when fresh polls are called to vote for President Uhuru Kenyatta. According to Mr Linford Mutembei, the ruling did not sway their political stand. “The judgement was obviously disappointing to us. But, as President Kenyatta’s supporters, we will maintain calm and continue with our daily lives waiting for the repeat poll. I am very sure when that time comes, we will prevail.” CAMPAIGNSMr Mutembei said all Jubilee elected leaders should now dedicate their energies towards campaigning for the President, especially in areas where he enjoys minimal support to ensure he garners more votes. Mr Joseph Kamau, a trader in Limuru, questioned the parameters used by Supreme Court to invalidate President Kenyatta’s victory. “We have very many questions on why things have turned out this way. But because the verdict has been given, we have no choice by to respect it,” he said. Ms Nancy Njoki, a dairy farmer in Githunguri, said, “This (ruling) was a major shock to us. This will however not change our support for the President and the Jubilee Party.” RE-RUNIn Nakuru, there were no celebrations as residents went about their businesses as usual. But even so, they expressed their disappointment with the ruling. “As a Jubilee Party supporter, I respect the Supreme Court’s verdict. "However, I will definitely exercise my constitutional right as a voter when the presidential elections are held again,” Mr Joel Kiarie, a hawker at Nakuru’s Wakulima market, said. Reported by Eric Wainaina, Mary Wambui, Francis Mureithi, Magati Obebo, Anita Chepkoech and Geoffrey Rono   Residents urge UhuRuto not to panic saying their numbers are intact.