Former Meru governor Peter Munya has said the Party of National Unity (PNU) will form a separate campaign team to drum up support for President Uhuru Kenyatta ahead of the repeat election. Mr Munya said that despite withdrawing his support for the National Super Alliance to back Jubilee, he will not hold a meeting alongside his rival Governor Kiraitu Murungi. He said following the meeting with the President at the Sagana State lodge, Meru leaders agreed to have two teams campaigning for Mr Kenyatta. “We are in the process of launching campaigns across Meru County but PNU will do it alone. Our focus is to woo more people to turn out to vote for President Kenyatta.  “I cannot attend a meeting organised by Governor Murungi because we have an unfinished business with him. If the meeting is led by the president I will attend,” Mr Munya said. CONVINCE VOTERS The PNU leader said he would pitch tent in Meru to convince those who were supporting the opposition to back Jubilee. “Politics is local and my intention is to spend more energy in Meru. Our team will hit the ground from next week with the intention of converting more voters to (become) supporters of the president. We would like to convert the 55,000 voters who voted for Nasa in Meru,” he said. Mr Munya said due to his differences and the petition against the election of Mr Murungi, he could not share a platform with the governor. “The president assured me that he will not interfere with my election petition. He said he will not meddle in local politics and (he) will not take sides,” the former governor said. RIGGED OUT Mr Munya noted that he was forced out of Jubilee by the sustained attacks on PNU even after he was “rigged out”. “I was irked by the deliberate effort to kill my political ambitions when I was removed as PNU leader. I could not sit and wait to die hence the decision to retreat to Nasa so that I could fight back. I was however called by the president’s handlers who promised to sought out the issues,” he recounted. Mr Munya said his reinstatement as PNU leader and the president’s pledge that he would not take sides in the Meru gubernatorial election petition made him abandon Nasa. He assured his supporters that he will remain a Jubilee supporter. Meanwhile, Jubilee politicians in the county are yet to start any campaigns for the re-election of President Kenyatta.           
 email
 print
 