The Caucasian Chalk Circle by Bertolt Bretch spreads over five scenes. To recap on the earlier article on characters and their roles in The River and the Source, a character analysis is done by examining what the characters do and say, what others say about them, what the character s feelings and aspirations are and how they react to situations and events. Character analysis also goes beyond what and who the characters are to cover the role they play in the book. A character s role can be to influence events or other characters. Some characters are also used to develop the plot by influencing themes.In The Caucasian Chalk Circle, Bretch uses the story of the warring communities and Grusha and Natella to pass the message that whoever can make the best use of resources in order to provide for others deserves to get those resources. The characters in the play are diverse but this article will focus on Grusha, Azdak and the Grand Duke.Grusha, a kitchen maid in the Governor s palace, is the protagonist in the play. She is engaged to Simon Shashava and is a sister to Lavrenti. She rescues Michael, who was left behind by his mother after the coup. She makes several sacrifices for the child and stays with him for two years until his mother claims him back. In the end, Azdak, presiding as the judge, rules that Grusha should retain the child. She plays the role of character development, plot development and develops themes such as love and motherhood. She enhances the plot when she takes Michael and runs away with him.Grusha is loving and motherly. She decides to take the child to the Northern Mountains to protect him from the soldiers out to kill him. She has to make difficult decisions and sacrifices to keep him safe. She sacrifices her week s wage to buy milk for Michael. She decides to adopt the child and risks her own life to keep the child safe. Since no one else will take you, son, I must take you I ll wash you, son, and christen you in the glacier water. We ll see it through together, she says (pg39).Grusha is brave. In order to save Michael, she hits the corporal who wants to take him on the head. This gives her a chance to flee with the child. When fleeing from the Ironshirts, she crosses the rotten bridge with the child. When the soldiers take Michael away, Grusha pursues them even though it was risky. In the court, she confronts Azdak, the judge, and dares him to pass a verdict against her after seeing him taking a bribe.She is also determined and decisive. In order to save Michael, she risks her life by making dangerous decisions. She hits a corporal who tries to take him away. She risks her life by crossing the rotten bridge when being pursued by the soldiers. When she cannot get milk from the Old Man, she decides to breastfeed Michael. She lies to Aniko, her sister-in-law, about Michael to get a roof over their heads. She later gets married to a dying man, Jussup, for the sake of Michael. She is also determined to keep him at all costs and fights it out with the boy s birth mother, Natella, and wins.Azdak was initially a village clerk. He accidentally saves the Grand Duke by hiding him in his hut during the civil war. He confesses his crime but no one believes him.When the Fat Prince arrives and offers the soldiers a chance to choose a new judge, they pick Azdak. He makes strange judgements that favour the poor and he openly takes bribes from the rich. He presides over Grusha s case and uses the chalk circle to determine the true mother. He awards Grusha the child and annuls her marriage to Jussup. He turns the Governor s estate into a playground for children. He becomes a folk legend among the people. His role in the play is to develop characters, the plot and themes such as justice and class struggle.Azdak is intelligent and cunning. He extorts from people who come to seek justice in his court. He uses the court to settle scores against the rich and favours the poor and vulnerable. He has a way of justifying his verdicts. He cleverly allows Natella s lawyer to reveal his selfish interests then rules the case in favour of Grusha. He deliberately divorces Grusha from Jussup in order to help her get married to Simon.Azdak is also corrupt. He takes bribes from court clients and lawyers before presiding over cases. He opens proceedings by demanding for a bribe. He says, I accept . He takes a bribe from the Innkeeper in order to listen to his case against Ludovica, his daughter-in-law. He says I accept Good. Now the formalities are disposed of. This is a case of rape? (page 78). He also takes a bribe from Natella s lawyers in the case against Grusha. When he receives a bribe, he says, I listen in quite a different way when I know you re good (page 91).He is controversial and unpredictable. In the case that involves the Old Woman to whom miracles were happening, he decides to punish the farmers and sets free the Old Woman and the Bandit (page 82). In his ruling against the invalid against the doctor who operates a patient s wrong leg for free, he charges the doctor for professional negligence but acquits him as punishment. He acquits the stableman who confesses to raping Ludovica. He convicts Ludovica for assaulting the unfortunate man with a dangerous weapon . Everybody believes that Natella will win the case against Grusha because she pulls the child twice out of the chalk circle. Azdak unpredictably rules in favour of Grusha.The Grand Duke rules the province, Grusinia, with his governors. The princes meet and plan a coup against him as he is engaged in a war in Persia. He goes into exile for two years and, with support of the Persians, his former enemies, he overthrows the Fat Prince. He saves Azdak s life by allowing him to remain as judge since he had offered him asylum when he was a fugitive. He develops the plot because of the war, develops characters and develops themes such as abuse of power and war and its effects.He is corrupt and greedy. He says that for the king to have a new province, the peasants must give up their savings, for the roof of the world to be conquered, the roof of the cottage should be torn down and that soldiers are carried to the end of the world for the great ones to eat at home. Most of his officials are corrupt as they take bribes and increase taxes. Azdak calls him a fraud and swindler.He is incompetent and extravagant. He allows the princes to run the war. They embezzle funds, send sick horses and, instead of fighting, they are drinking in whorehouses. Officers oppress their juniors at his command and he commands the rich to sleep with peasants wives. He hires 500 lawyers to defend him and wants enough seats to be given to the lawyers.However, he is also honest. He admits that the princes gained from the war while the republic of Grusinia lost. They deliberately failed to deliver horses and food supplies to the war thus causing the army to lose. He says that the princes mismanaged the funds directed to the war and acquired horses that were sick. When accused of talking like a carpet weaver, he says that he has said nothing but the truth.The characters explored above are important because they develop the plot of the play, reveal character traits and develop themes. Learners are encouraged to explore the rest of the characters in their free time. Keep reading to gain more insight. The writer is a teacher at Alliance Girls High School. [email&#160;protected] email print email print