President Uhuru Kenyatta on Friday faulted the Supreme Court for nullifying his win, but said he will respect the ruling and seek a new mandate from the people of Kenya in a fresh election.In his eight-minute televised address from State House, Nairobi, President Kenyatta said he was disappointed with the court decision, but was optimistic that it offered him a second chance at the ballot.He pointed out that Jubilee Party had more governors, senators, MPs and MCAs. I disagree with the ruling because millions of Kenyans queued, made their choices, and six people have decided that they will go against the will of the people, President Kenyatta said. This is despite the fact that you as Kenyans have decided and elected a majority of Jubilee governors, senators, MPs, women reps, and MCAs. DEMOCRACY He argued that he had a track record to bank on, and which he said will catapult him to a second term in office. Six people cannot alter the wishes of 40 million Kenyans. "They cannot. Kenyans will decide, and that is the nature of democracy. Let us go back to the people, and let them decide, Mr Kenyatta said.RALLYAfter the address, President Kenyatta started his campaigns immediately at Burma market in Nairobi, vowing to change the face of Nairobi and sell what he said was the best manifesto yet. I am no longer president-in-waiting. I am now firmly in power. Justice Maraga is now dealing with a sitting president, Mr Kenyatta told his supporters. INVALID In Burma, Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen delivered a veiled threat on the Supreme Court. If Nasa demands the removal of the IEBC, we will also remove all the Supreme Court judges, Mr Murkomen, who is poised to take the House Majority Leader slot, said. In its four-against-two majority judgment, the Supreme Court overturned the presidential election results, effectively annulling President Kenyatta s win and ordered for a fresh poll within 60 days. A declaration is hereby issued that the third respondent was not validly declared as the President-elect and that the declaration is invalid, null and void, the six-judge Bench led by Chief Justice David Maraga ruled.RE-RUN At State House, Mr Kenyatta, flanked by Deputy President William Ruto said that he is ready to go back to the people to seek a fresh mandate, which he said he is confident will be handed to him.He had won the annulled poll by 54 per cent, polling 8,203,290 votes against Mr Odinga's 6,762, 224 (44.74 per cent). We are ready to go back to the people with the same agenda. No change. "We will take the same agenda of building the country, building a national party, and to develop this nation. We are ready. We are ready, he said.PEACE He went on: Mine is to say that we are not at war with the opposition. We will go back to the people and tell them what we want to do for them. President Kenyatta spent more than half of his eight-minute speech calling for peace and love for ones neighbours, saying despite the Supreme Court verdict, nothing should change the good relations among Kenyans. Take the hand of your brother, sister, and shake it, and say: Peace. Peace, peace. "Your neighbour will still be your neighbour regardless of what has happened, he said.Later in the evening, he and his deputy addressed a gathering at Burma market in Nairobi where the President urged voters to be ready for the second round. email print email print Ambassadors congratulate the Kenyans for showing patience and confidence in the legal system.