In the aftermath of the violence that characterised the 2007 election, Ngunjiri Wambugu made a name for himself as a messenger of peace, reconciliation and ethnic tolerance. As the founder of an organisation called Kikuyus for Change, he was often invited to speak at conferences and workshops (some of which I attended). There, he encouraged Kenyans, particularly his ethnic Kikuyu community, to look outside the prism of ethnic identity and to embrace a national identity that was accommodating of other Kenyan communities. I was impressed by his boldness and his willingness to address “elephant-in-the- room” questions, particularly those dealing with tribalism. However, Wambugu seems to have undergone a radical transformation since 2013, when Uhuru Kenyatta became President. Now this newly elected MP for Nyeri Town seems to have become an advocate for Kikuyu supremacy. PROMOTING TOLERANCE His recent writings and his petition last week (which he later withdrew) to have Chief Justice David Maraga removed for misconduct suggest that he is no longer interested in promoting tolerance but has now become a proponent of ‘Kikuyu exceptionalism’—the belief that Kenya without a Kikuyu presidency is doomed and that only the Kikuyu have the “right” to rule this country. Even though his Jubilee Party has distanced itself from Wambugu’s petition, it is not lost on many people that none other than President Kenyatta has stated that he will “fix” the “wakora” (thugs)—meaning Supreme Court judges, including the Chief Justice, who is the president of the court—upon assuming the presidency in the upcoming fresh election. To add insult to injury, the President suggested that the CJ nullified his August 8 re-election because the judge is from the Abagusii community—thus insinuating that Maraga is a tribalist who makes decisions based on ethnic considerations. This is deeply insulting, not just to the CJ and the Kisii community but to all those Kenyans who believe that the holders of public office should not be judged on their ethnic identity but their ability to carry out their job well and with impartiality. OVERTURN CONSTITUTION Last week, President Kenyatta also stated that even if Raila Odinga won the presidency in the fresh election, Jubilee had the numbers in Parliament to impeach him within three months. He was echoing the sentiments of his deputy William Ruto, who made a similar threat in a television interview when he stated that Jubilee could even use its majority in Parliament to overturn the Constitution. In others words, what they are insinuating is that, once in power, they could deliberately undermine the Constitution to retain that power. These, indeed, are dangerous and scary times. The President and his deputy may not have meant what they said, their utterances may have just been rage-filled diatribes, but given that both leaders have displayed a vindictive and reckless streak in the days after the Supreme Court ruling, who is to tell what they might do if they won the election? Will they dismantle the Constitution? Will they weaken the independence of the Supreme Court and the Judiciary? Will President Kenyatta, like his mentor Daniel arap Moi, ensure that all his opponents are exterminated? Will a second Kenyatta presidency be more “lethal, brutal and ruthless” than the first one, as recently predicted by President Kenyatta’s adviser David Murathe? ‘Jubilants’ such as Wambugu should be asking themselves whether they are willing to see the return of Moi-style dictatorship. If not, the Jubilee hierachy must tell their leaders to desist from this kind of rhetoric. They must remind them that any attempt at denying Kenyans their constitutional rights and freedoms will not be tolerated. After all, it is we, the electorate, who bestowed power to these leaders and it is we who voted overwhelmingly for a new Constitution. It is, therefore, our right—nay, obligation—to remind these leaders about the parameters within which they can operate, and what lines they cannot cross. What is clear since 2013 is that tribal and patronage networks have made a disturbing comeback. The Supreme Court ruling on the election petition was viewed by these networks as an attempt at undermining their authority, so they hit back. It is sad and ironic that, while the rest of the world is congratulating Kenya for the brave and unprecedented Supreme Court ruling, some Kenyans are hell-bent on taking us back to the dark days of authoritarianism, intimidation and ethnic bigotry. rasna.warah@gmail.com.  