President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto on Friday separately piled pressure on the electoral commission to hold the fresh election on the set date, cautioning that Jubilee Party would not negotiate an extension. The President asked the Wafula Chebukati-led Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) team to stop engaging in sideshows and “night meetings” that may derail the repeat elections set for October 17. “All we want is an election and if by the expiry of 60 days you won’t have conducted the election, we will not accept it,” he said at Sagana Lodge when he addressed Central Kenya leaders. DEFEATSimilarly, addressing Jubilee Party leaders in Mombasa and Kilifi, Mr Ruto claimed the Raila Odinga-led Nasa coalition was calling for negotiations over the fresh election date in the hope of a “political solution”. “Nasa is talking about a political solution to the October 17 election because they have sensed defeat. "They want us to negotiate how to share power and short change Kenyans on the impending elections,” the DP said at a meeting at Wild Waters in Mombasa. “The only political solution available is for people of Kenya to go to the ballot and elect their leaders,” he added. CHILOBAThe President, while addressing the leaders from 10 counties in Mount Kenya region, dismissed Nasa’s demands on changes in the electoral body as a plot to delay the election and push the country into a constitutional crisis and use it as grounds for a coalition government. “Are they the only ones who have the right to table demands? Let the independent body do its job without interference,” President Kenyatta told Nasa. Nasa has, among other things, demanded the sacking of IEBC chief executive Ezra Chiloba and 10 other officials, the replacement of all returning officers implicated in irregularities and the cancellation of the Dubai-based firm, Al-Ghurair, tender to print presidential ballot papers. BALLOT PRINTING President Kenyatta dismissed the demands as just a tip of a plot to force a coalition government. “We have seen their list of demands. They want so that if these demands are not met, the election is stopped and they can ask for a share of government. But that plan will not succeed,” he said. In reference to the Nasa demand to change the ballot printer, Mr Ruto said Jubilee was not interested in who would print the ballots, or who the polling officials will be, as long as the election is conducted on October 17. “Even if Nasa has a printing press they can go ahead and print the ballot papers. "What we want is to see all the required materials are ready and the people participate in electing their preferred President as this is their constitutional right,” Mr Ruto said. POLL TIMELINEPresident Kenyatta cautioned the Judiciary against issuing orders that will affect the election timeline noting that they will not remain silent if that happens. “Do not think that just because we are the silent majority you will take those things you force down our throat. We do not want night meeting, we just want an election,” he said. Faced with a dilemma over who to choose between poll losers and leaders elected on Jubilee Party tickets in central for his re-election campaigns, President Kenyatta urged them all to work together, saying the end game should be his re-election for another five-year-term. “Even those who did not win, they have their share of votes. We cannot ignore because we need them to make an even stronger team,” he said. KARUA PETITIONNarc Kenya leader Martha Karua and former Kirinyaga Governor Joseph Ndathi left the meeting after it was announced that governors will take charge of the campaigns, each asked to submit a 10-member team. Ms Karua has filed a petition against Governor Anne Waiguru. Others losers losers who attended the meeting were William Kabogo (Kiambu) and Peter Munya (Meru). The Coast meeting was attended by Governors Salim Mvurya (Kwale) and Fahim Twaha (Lamu) as well as Lamu Senator Anwar Loitiptip, MPs Naomi Shaban (Taveta), Khatib Mwashetani (Lunga Lunga) and Shariff Ali (Lamu East) among others. Reporting by Grace Gitau, Mohamed Ahmed and Daniel Nyassy.   The IEBC has been powering ahead with its preparations.