Have you been trying to search for rapper King Kaka’s music on the music downloading sites Waabeh and Mdundo? Well, if you are having trouble finding the artiste’s songs it is because he pulled them off. Showbuzz has learnt that the Life na adabu musician recently removed his songs from the sites, citing “lack of profit”. However, users of the site can download or listen to collaborations he has featured in. Some of them include Avril’s Ninaweza, Kagwe Mungai’s Give it To Me and Amos and Josh’s Baadaye. King Kaka, real name Kennedy Ombima, made the announcement on Twitter. “Announcement! My music is no longer on Waabeh and Mdundo. Asanteni for the continued support. Niko kwingine kwote.” Asked why he had decided on pulling his music from the platforms, Rabbit said; “Not getting the much profit we deserve.” Mdundo reacted to his announcement with a carefully crafted response. “Thank you for great times when your music was on Mdundo @RabbitTheKing. You’re welcome back any time.” His publicist declined to say more when called for comment. Fans can still access his music from all other music platforms like iTunes and Boomplay.   King Kaka pulls his songs from local music sites Have you been trying to search for rapper King Kaka’s music on the music downloading sites Waabeh and Mdundo? Well, if you are having trouble finding the artiste’s songs it is because he pulled them off. Showbuzz has learnt that the Life na adabu musician recently removed his songs from the sites, citing “lack of profit”. However, users of the site can download or listen to collaborations he has featured in. Some of them include Avril’s Ninaweza, Kagwe Mungai’s Give it To Me and Amos and Josh’s Baadaye. King Kaka, real name Kennedy Ombima, made the announcement on Twitter. “Announcement! My music is no longer on Waabeh and Mdundo. Asanteni for the continued support. Niko kwingine kwote.” Asked why he had decided on pulling his music from the platforms, Rabbit said; “Not getting the much profit we deserve.” Mdundo reacted to his announcement with a carefully crafted response. “Thank you for great times when your music was on Mdundo @RabbitTheKing. You’re welcome back any time.” His publicist declined to say more when called for comment. Fans can still access his music from all other music platforms like iTunes and Boomplay.   
 