The Football Kenya Federation (FKF) has lined up two international friendly matches for the national team, Harambee Stars away to Iraq and Thailand on October 5 and 8 respectively. Kenya and Iraq share position 88 on the Fifa World Rankings while Thailand slumped seven places to position 137 in the latest chart. FKF Technical Committee chairman Nabea Muriithi said the two matches' main objective is to build cohesiveness among the players preparing for the 2018 Africa Nations Championship (Chan) and 2019 Africa Cup of Nations qualifiers. “We want to play the friendlies (against Iraq and Thailand) to build a strong bond. The more matches we play, the better we become as a unit. You realise that we have two set of teams," he said. “They need more of these matches to gain more experience. This will help the technical bench in planning for the upcoming competitions." Even as head coach Stanley Okumbi plans to name his squad for the matches upon his return from German where he is attending a month-long coaching course, the motive behind the two fixtures has been questioned. “As a country, we need to know the purpose of friendly matches. Are we playing to rise up the Fifa rankings or for team chemistry? If we are lining up for rankings, then Iraq, Thailand meetings is not the way to go. If the technical bench wants to utilise the matches to gauge their tactics and formations, we can give it a nod," former Kenyan international Simeon Mulama said. “During our time, we played against low ranked countries not for the purpose of rising up the rankings but the then coach, Fabisch (Reinhard) could use such to gauge his charges’ chemistry.” The former Nakuru AllStars coach, capped 19 times by Kenya, tipped Stars to qualify for the expanded Cup of Nations set to be held in Cameroon in 2019. Stars are third in the group after a shocking 2-1 defeat away to Sierra Leone in the first round qualifier played on June 10. They host Ghana in the second qualifier in March 2018.   Regionally, Kenya is second to Uganda.