Opposition MPs on Wednesday resolved not to participate in any Parliament business until further notice, even as their Jubilee counterparts approved their members to the House Business Committee. The Jubilee lawmakers approved Mr Amos Kimunya (Kipipiri), Mr Shadrack Mose (Kitutu Masaba), Meru Woman Rep Kawira Mwangaza and her Turkana counterpart Joyce Emanikor to be members of the committee before adjourning the morning session. The opposition MPs walked out of the morning sitting to attend their parliamentary group meeting at Okoa Kenya secretariat and return with a list of their House leaders and members of the House Business Committee. However, the lawmakers did not return for the afternoon sittings although the Jubilee members were present. ILLEGALLY CONSTITUTED Nasa co-principal Moses Wetang’ula said the coalition would not be part of any House committee because Parliament was illegally constituted. Addressing journalists after the Nasa parliamentary group meeting, Mr Wetang’ula said the Opposition had resolved to withdraw its members from attending all proceedings of the House as well as committees until a fresh presidential election is held. READ: MPs approve Jubilee's House business team Nasa was supposed to present names of representatives to the National Assembly House Business Committee. “We will not be part of any parliamentary proceedings and House committees as the House currently constituted is full of illegalities and is a Jubilee parliament,” said Mr Wetang’ula. The meeting was also attended by Nasa leaders Raila Odinga, Kalonzo Musyoka and Musalia Mudavadi. FIRST SITTING The opposition MPs had on Tuesday boycotted the official opening of the 12th Parliament by President Kenyatta, with ODM chairman and Suba MP John Mbadi saying the first sitting of the House is supposed to be used by a newly-elected President to spell out his agenda to the country. MPs on Wednesday discussed the speech delivered by President Kenyatta during the opening. Meanwhile, Speaker of the National Assembly Justin Muturi warned that the House would not be held at ransom by the Opposition or any other party that is not ready to participate in House affairs. Nominated MP Cecily Mbarire said the House needs to start its work. “There are important issues that need to be discussed and therefore we urge the Opposition to bring their names so that this House can start its work,” she said.   Opposition leader says IEBC is not able to conduct October 17 poll as currently constituted.