An urgent review of the mess that a change in the national examinations calendar could have caused to the 1.6 million candidates may have informed the fixing of October 17 as the date for the fresh presidential election. A crucial meeting of the Kenya National Examinations Council (Knec), which was chaired by Prof George Magoha on Saturday last week, resolved not to alter the examinations calendar owing to the confusion it would cause to the sector. According to the timetables already sent out to schools, Kenya Certificate of Primary Education (KCPE) examination will begin on October 31 and end on November 2 while Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) examination will start on November 6 and end on November 29. EXAMS The Council’s resolutions were further augmented when Education Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i wrote to the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) Chairman Wafula Chebukati pleading that the calendar should not be interfered with. In view of the fact that practicals for some of the KCSE examination subjects start as early as October 23, Dr Matiang’i said IEBC needed to consider fixing the date for the repeat election at least one week earlier to allow for preparations for the tests. The practicals, which are scheduled to end on November 2, will cover French (oral and Braille), German (oral), Arabic (oral) Kenya sign language (practical skills), music, building and construction and home science. POLLING STATIONS Dr Matiang’i’s argument was that schools served as polling stations yet they needed to be free at least seven days to allow for preparations for the practical examinations. The Sunday Nation learnt that the Ministry and Knec identified at least five programme events that could have been thrown into disarray should the elections be held after October 17. Holding the elections after the suggested date would have meant the examinations be held in November with the KCPE coming first. What that could have meant was the marking of the examinations, which the Knec plans to commence just a week after the completion of each exam, would be delayed. It would also have meant the marking process for the KCSE, which traditionally ends before Christmas, would extend to January when schools are supposed to open. EXAMINERS The ministry ruled out the postponement of the exams as it would lead to schools running short of examiners. The council has already identified 5,916 examiners for KCPE and 21,828 examiners for KCSE. “All the new examiners have been trained in readiness for the marking activities. This exercise was carried out in April. "Of the new examiners trained, 464 are for the KCPE while 5,452 are for the KCSE,” the CS said. A total of 1,003,556 candidates will sit KCPE while 615,773 will sit KCSE. FORM ONE SELECTION Additionally, the ministry argued it couldn’t afford a late start as the expected dates of examinations release would delay. Last year, the ministry released the KCPE results on December 1, a date expected to be maintained this year. The early release of the KCPE paved the way for the Form One selection exercise, which started on December 13. Traditionally, the exercise was conducted in the first or second week of the first term. The council meeting advised against changing the new practice of releasing results early. POSTPONE In justifying the argument to have the examination go on as planned, Dr Matiang’i said they had been planning since January. Apparently, the IEBC appeared to have been convinced by the Education ministry’s case, picking October 17 as the date to hold the presidential election. President Uhuru Kenyatta in several political rallies has also insisted the examinations will go on as scheduled. The announcement was immediately criticised by Nasa principals, with the coalition’s presidential candidate Raila Odinga calling for the postponement of the exercise. He asked that the exams be pushed back by two weeks. “What is wrong in pushing back the exams for two weeks to allow for an important national exercise like elections?” the opposition leader asked at Wilson Airport on Tuesday. STUDENTS Mr Odinga’s position drew reactions from Kenya Secondary School Heads Association (Kessha), Kenya Primary School Heads (Kepsa), National Parents Association, Elimu Yetu Coalition and Kenya Private Schools Association, which all warned that a change in examination dates could affect candidates’ preparations. “These candidates have been preparing since the start of the year. Let us allow them to do it please without inconveniencing them,” Kessha Chairman Kahi Indimuli said. “If the political class believes in consultation, any matter concerning the child should be subjected to the same consultation process,” Kepsa CEO Peter Ndoro said. CRITICISM National Parents Association chairman Nicholas Maiyo said they had initially written to the IEBC requesting the election date be set on October 10 to allow two weeks of preparations for examinations. “We are therefore against the latest calls by the political class that the national examinations be put off by two weeks; we consider this proposal untenable,” he said. Schools are expected to close by October 29 to pave way for the examinations.   The minister proposed October 17 as a more convenient date for the poll.