Nasa leader Raila Odinga has reiterated that he will not take part in the October 17 repeat presidential poll unless IEBC officials accused of bungling August 8 poll are sacked. Mr Odinga on Tuesday claimed there was a fresh plot to rig the repeat election using partisan IEBC officials he wants axed. MEMO “We want Chiloba and officers implicated in rigging of August polls to be sacked before next polls,” he said in reference to IEBC CEO Ezra Chiloba. The CEO has been under fire lately after a leaked internal memo from Chairman Wafula Chebukati showed the commission wanted answers from him concerning failures that marred the poll. Mr Chiloba is yet to respond to the 12 demands, including explanation why some election result forms lacked security features, purchase of satellite phones that never worked and why hundreds of polling stations did not send results of the presidential election to the national tallying centre. “We want concerns raised by chairman (Wafula) Chebukati in the internal memo addressed. The IEBC cannot pretend to be united again. We are not going to fresh elections with that team.” He spoke during a campaign rally in Kibra Constituency in Nairobi where he issued what he termed during the "Kibera Declaration". He was accompanied by his co-principals Musalia Mudavadi, Kalonzo Musyoka, Moses Wetang'ula and a host of Nasa MPs, senators and other leaders. AL-GHURAIR The opposition leaders accused IEBC of issuing ballots printing tender to Dubai-based Al-Ghurair, the same firm that printed documents used in the August 8 poll. Nasa has opposed award of the tender to the French firm and asked the Government of France to investigate the firm’s officials accused of aiding vote rigging in Kenya. “There will be no elections in October if concerns raised by Nasa are not addressed,” Mr Odinga said. Mr Musyoka asked Director of Public Prosecutions Keriako Tobiko to arrest and prosecute IEBC officials implicated in the rigging of August poll once the Supreme Court issues its full judgment. “We expect nothing short of prosecution,” he said.  