First Lady Margaret Kenyatta has urged Taita Taveta residents to turn out in large numbers and vote for President Uhuru Kenyatta in the October repeat poll. Speaking Wednesday, Mrs Kenyatta said that the President is committed to improving the living standards of the residents through various development projects. "I ask you that on election day, vote for Uhuru Kenyatta as your president. My appeal to you is from my heart because I know he will change the lives of Kenyans," she said. The First Lady also thanked the residents on behalf of Mr Kenyatta for the votes he got in the August 8 poll and hoped that the president will win with a wide margin in the repeat election.   EMPOWER WOMEN, YOUTH Mrs Kenyatta said that the national government is committed to empower youth and women through the National Government Affirmative Action Fund (Ngaaf) , which she said has improved the lives of many. She also said that the Beyond Zero clinics have saved lives of the marginalised and the vulnerable in the society and assured that she is committed to ensure that the initiative benefits the target groups in the society. "The initiative has improved maternal and child healthcare across the country. We are committed to ensure that no woman or child die from causes that can be avoided, we will work to ensure that this is achieved," she said. The First Lady spoke on Wednesday during free eye treatment clinic at Bura Railway Station in Mwatate, Taita Taveta County.   EYE CLINIC During the function, more than 200 people with eye infections were treated and provided with reading glasses. Mrs Kenyatta directed that 10 people who were found to have serious eye problems be transferred to Nairobi for specialised treatment. Vision Spring, City Eye Hospital and Ahadi Kenya joined hands to offer comprehensive eye examination, diabetic eye clinic, and eye surgery to the residents. Vision Spring Project Manager Ruth Mugo said a similar programme had been successful in Kajiado County. "We target families with less than Sh400 daily income. If you improve reading ability, you economically empower women. In this way we increase their productivity to enable them provide for their families," she said. Mrs Kenyatta also visited Starehe Kamili where she launched a women empowerment poultry programme that benefits 40 self-help groups across the county. LIVING STANDARDS The programme seeks to improve people's living standards especially women who are considered bread winners in the area. Taveta MP Naomi Shaban and Woman Representative Lydia Haika, who accompanied Mrs Kenyatta, urged voters to turn out in large numbers and re-elect the Jubilee administration. Dr Shaban urged voters to make use of the golden opportunity provided by the Supreme Court to cast their votes in favour of Mr Kenyatta. "Nullification of President Kenyatta's victory in the August poll has provided [us] with a second chance to double our votes. Let us not waste this golden opportunity," she said. She said that the decision by the Supreme Court to nullify Mr Kenyatta's election will not stop Jubilee from winning in the repeat poll. Leaders present at the function were former Cabinet Minister Marsden Madoka, Taita Taveta Deputy Governor Majala Mlaghui and the governor’s wife Stella Samboja. 
 