Kenya Maritime Authority’s football team rocked Kenya Airports Authority 3-0 to crown a successful day after further victories by their netball and volleyball teams as the Kecoso Games entered the second day in Kisumu on Sunday. Goals by Mohammed Yusuf (16th minute), Kibwana Ali (52nd minute) and Alpha Ouma (92nd minute) were enough to see off KAA and helped them to the top of the table standing in these games being played on a round robin format. Yusuf opened the floodgates after Mohammed Kazungu had done the spade work before Wyclife Ochomo put Kibwana through for the second against the run of play after some brilliant exchanges by George Numa and Emmanuel Sande of KAA. Ouma put the issue beyond doubt with a solo move on the stroke of time. “We made use of our chances well and cannot improve in the next games,” KMA coach Abdul Nasir Kassim said after the match. In the volleyball match played earlier, Kenya Maritime Authority defeated Kenya Airport Authority 3-2 (25-23, 25-23, 18-25, 26-28, 18-16). In football matches programmed for Monday, Mosca take on KAA from 4.00pm while the only volleyball match programmed will see KCAA take on KPA at 9.00am while KAA take on Mosca from 2.00pm. Earlier in netball, Kenya Maritime Authority hammered Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure 64-19 at Jomo Kenyatta Sports Grounds. This happened as a determined KPA and KCAA settled for a 53-53 draw in a tough and tension-charged match. Against the ministry team, Kenya Maritime Authority, who finished fourth last year in Nakuru, took an early 15-06 first quarter lead and never looked back stretching the lead to 42-17 at the break before running rings round their opponents to put the game beyond reach. Elsa Anyango of KMA was named best shooter with 32 goals while Millicent Adhiambo was voted best player. Zuleikha Salim replied with 10 goals for the losers. The KPA vs KCCA clash was nerve wrecking with KPA taking a 13-10 first quarter lead but KCCA took the second quarter 28-25. Helen Sinoya was best shooter with 36 goals while Christine Ongiro was named player of the match. Filbert Ochieng of Mosca leaves his marker Raphael Ochieng of Bandari for dead during their opening match of the Kecoso Games at Kisumu’s Moi Stadium on Saturday. Bandari won 2-0.  