What would music live performances be like with no backup dancers? Boring, bland, some would be unwatchable even. Such is the impact dance crews have had in the music industry. Since the mid-2000s, the Kenyan showbiz has witnessed a plethora of vastly talented dance groups whose impact in the local scene is impossible to erase. The FBI dance crew, Blackblingers and Sarakasi dancers are some of these groups.  Nakuru based-dance crew, Redspaax is currently one of the biggest dance crews in the Kenyan scene. Nation.co.ke talked to the crew’s CEO, Austin Titus. Define Redspaax? Redspaxx is a dynamic group of young and talented dancers from Nakuru. We launched the group five years ago after high school. We are ten dancers in total, and our goal is to entertain in the music Kenyan scene as backup dancers.   You have danced on several big stages locally. How has the experience been like? Yeah, we are really fortunate to have danced in some very big TV scenes locally. Our latest big show was the Blaze event that recently took place in Nakuru town. Over the years, we have had the opportunity to perform at Churchill show events, Telkom events, performed with big name artists such as Timmy Tdat, Vivian Kenya and recently we performed during the inauguration of Nakuru governor, Hon Lee Kinyanjui.  Perfecting dance moves asks for a lot of practice. How do you manage? I must admit it’s a big challenge. We don’t have a manager, so we have to perform a lot of roles on our own. We have different roles for everyone in the group, but occasionally we seek outside help when we need it. As for perfecting our dance moves, we begin our practices everyday at 6.45am. Usually, we get inspiration for new dancing styles from American dance crews. We integrate the moves with our original dance moves and practice until everyone in the group gets everything right. You have participated in so many TV dancing competitions. Why is that? Well, TV does help us showcase our talent out there. Over the years we have participated in numerous dancing competitions. We have also landed big deals after our performances in dancing competitions such as Sakata. More recently, we participated in KTN’s dancing family (as the Jumas family) in 2016 and emerged as 1st runners up. You have a new project coming up. Tell me about it. Currently, we have plans to start a dancing studio to nurture new talent here in Nakuru. The project is still in its early stages but we hope to complete it soon. Once completed, we hope to use the studio to perfect and better manage our group as well as welcome other young dancers in the region. Redspaax is a fashionable dance crew. Who does your costumes? Thank you. We have a talented costume designer amongst ourselves. He is called Denis. From time to time we help him out, but he does most of the costume design work. The rest of the tasks are done by different members of the crew.   Let’s talk finances. Does dancing pay your bills? Yes, we pay the bills with dancing. Of course there have been numerous challenges over the years, but we can’t complain much. Usually, we charge from Sh45,000 and upwards depending on event type. The highest we ever earned was from an event by Nation Media Group at the Great rift Concert vendors’ day. We share the cash amongst ourselves, but we do save some to run the group’s errands. Is the future bright for dance groups in Kenya? Yes, there is a bright future for dance groups locally. Dancing is highly valued at the Kenya scene today, and hardworking artists will definitely reap a lot from their work. Right now, almost every wants must have backup dancers to perform live. Dancing competitions are also in plenty, and youths out there have numerous platforms to showcase their talent.  At Redspaax we also have big dreams about the future. We hope to be the best dancing crew in Africa someday, performing for big African artists such as Davido and Mafikizolo.   Any last words? My challenge to youths who want to join the dancing industry is to decide what they want most out of their careers. Decide if you want financial success, comfort or fame. Put God first and persist until you make it to where you want to get in life.  Do you have feedback on this story? E-mail: lifeandstyle@ke.nationmedia.com 
 