His beautifully controlled voice stood out as he portrayed Jesus in the first instalment of the award-winning musical play Jesus Christ Superstar during the Easter holidays. Speaking to ActScene, Dan Aceda, better known as Chizi, said he is taking a break from acting to concentrate on his music for now. Why the break from acting? I can say there are many things that have happened to me this year and it was a great honour to play Jesus in the play. I just needed a break from acting. I have turned down several invites because I am working on my music and will be releasing an EP late November. Tell us more about your new music… I’m finalising a song which I am featuring the great Fela Kuti. Sometime last year someone from his camp visited Kenya. I met him and he liked what I had previously done and the direction of music I was taking. He proposed that I should collaborate with Mr Kuti. I jumped in with both feet and the project is almost ready now. I cannot tell you exactly when the single will be out, but after I submit my part, it will be up to Kuti’s camp to know when to release it.   What about poetry? I have also been writing and Kenyans will get to hear it soon. At the moment there is too much political hindrance which is affecting the entertainment industry and I hope all will be well soon so that people can get back to the theatres.   You will be on the same stage with Fally Ipupa at Koroga Festival.  I cannot wait to be on stage for the second time at Koroga. I am a big fan of Fally Ipupa and hope we can finalise our conversation of doing something together.   You have been doing a lot of collabos with international stars. For me it is eye opening to just collaborate with someone from a different culture. When I did "Look To You" with Jamaican songstress Etana she taught me a lot. I have always admired her and really followed what she was doing. I had wanted to work with her for a long time. We sealed the deal when she was in Kenya earlier this year.   What more can we expect from you? Apart from my new EP, I will be releasing a full album next year. I am also writing different commercials and also in the final stages of negotiations for a movie deal which might be shot sometime next year.             
 email
 print
 