The electoral commission has stoked new fires with the declaration of a new date for the repeat presidential election. The National Super Alliance has come out with guns blazing, arguing that the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission has blundered by announcing the new date–October 17 — without consulting all parties and addressing a litany of fatal weaknesses that bungled the August 8 poll. From the outset, it should be made abundantly clear that there is nothing sacrosanct about any date. LAWS What is critical is that the election be held within the 60 days as declared by the Supreme Court and the Constitution. For this reason, focus should be on sealing all loopholes to ensure the rerun meets the high threshold. The reason for the nullification of President Uhuru Kenyatta’s re-election was that it was not done in accordance with the law; that the IEBC grossly breached various provisions of the Constitution and the election laws, which rendered the outcomes indefensible. CHEBUKATIAn equally profound determination was that an election is not an event but a process. Every activity — voter registration, procurement of election materials, administration of the polls, vote counting and tallying and declaration of results — must align to, and accord with, the Constitution and other statutory requirements. Tied to this is the principle of good faith and fair play. Determining the election date was, inevitably, the first critical task for the IEBC. PARTICIPATION But given the experience we have gone through, and recognising the high level of mistrust, the IEBC should have been more circumspect. It should have demonstrated how it is dealing with the issues raised by the court, conducted an audit of its systems, reorganised its structures and taken administrative action on those who caused the breaches that sullied the election in the first place. The only way the IEBC can insulate itself from attack is to constantly engage all players in its decision-making and demonstrate it is acting within the law and in good faith. It should not allow itself to be faulted for administrative and legal contraventions. Importantly, parties should not weigh everyone down with disputes over dates.  