LONDON Tottenham were held to a goalless draw by Swansea as Mauricio Pochettino saw his side's Wembley woes continue on Saturday. Pochettino's team have now gone three Premier League games without a win at their temporary home after losing to Chelsea and drawing against Burnley and Swansea. The Welsh side rode their luck at times as Tottenham hit the woodwork and had three penalty appeals turned down, but the hosts had only themselves to blame for failing to kill off Paul Clement's men. Tottenham hoped they had banished talk of a curse at Wembley, which is their base this season while White Hart Lane is redeveloped, by beating Borussia Dortmund in the Champions League in midweek. But that proved wishful thinking and even Harry Kane, who scored twice against Dortmund, couldn't save them. It needed a smart eighth minute save from Lukasz Fabianski to keep out Kane's early free-kick which skipped up off the turf. The Swansea goalkeeper's reflexes were tested again two minutes later when Son Heung-Min found space and from an actuate angle forced Fabianski to tip his shot into the side-netting. Another flowing move saw Son fire well wide before Swansea, who had barely got out of their own half, finally threatened on the counter-attack in the 25th minute. Renato Sanches had made a sluggish start but his quick feet gave Tammy Abraham a chance to set up Tom Carroll's effort on goal. Tottenham were bidding to set a new club record of scoring in 30 consecutive Premier League home games, but they were finding Swansea tough to break down. Swansea captain Federico Fernandez did well to turn Son's cross over his crossbar. From the resulting corner, Kieran Tripper drove wide as Spurs failed to score a first half goal in all three of their home league games this season. Just like the first half, the second period was dominated by Tottenham. But Pochettino's side were becoming increasingly frustrated, never more so than when a strong handball claim against Martin Olsson was overlooked by referee Mike Dean. Tottenham must have feared it wouldn't be their day when Kane somehow rattled the crossbar from six yards out after Moussa Sissoko's cut-back. The game was now being played entirely in Swansea's half, with Fernando Llorente introduced by Tottenham, just weeks after joining from the visitors. There was still time for Trippier to whistle his shot just wide before Serge Aurier dragged his effort the wrong side of the post deep into stoppage-time.   City's dominance was underscored by two goals in the final nine minutes.