The Sports ministry and the Football Kenya Federation officials put a spin on the country’s failure to host the African Nations Championship. Addressing journalists Monday, Principal Secretary Kirimi Kaberia and FKF president Nick Mwendwa blamed the current political situation for the decision by the Confederation of African Football (CAF) to strip Kenya of the hosting rights. This is in stark contrast to what CAF President Ahmad Ahmad said during a press conference on Saturday night. He gave three reasons that led his committee to strip Kenya of the hosting rights for the 16-team competition. PREPARATIONSThe Madagascar football chief said according to the CAF technical inspectors who conducted an inspection tour a fortnight ago, the facilities earmarked for the contest were only 20 percent ready. This means it would be impossible to have them ready before December 1, when the venues were to be handed over to CAF organisers. Mr Ahmad also accused Kenyan officials of being untruthful over their preparations. HASSAN WARIOThe CAF boss further cited uncertainty over the date for the repeat presidential poll. The venues earmarked for the competition were the Moi International Sports Centre in Kasarani, Nyayo National Stadium, Kinoru Stadium in Meru, Kipchoge Keino Stadium in Eldoret and Kenyatta Stadium in Machakos. Sports Cabinet Secretary Hassan Wario has remained tight-lipped, almost 72 hours since the country lost the hosting rights of the continental second tier tournament. POLITICSHowever, Mr Kaberia said: “We are disappointed. We were ready to host the tournament and we pushed it until the very last moment. "The key reason we lost this is because of the political situation in the country. I tried to explain to them how our Constitution works but they were not convinced.” Mr Kaberia’s sentiments were echoed by Mr Mwendwa, who said, contrary to his public declaration in March last year that he would resign if Kenya fails to host the regional tournament, he will not vacate office. RESIGNATIONMr Mwendwa also said CAF had given him the assurance that Kenya would host either the Fifa under-17 or under-20 World Cup in 2019 as compensation for the recent development. CAF is yet to make any official communication regarding this, and it remains unclear how realistic Kenya can host these competitions, whose bidding closed on July 17. “I will not resign because losing the hosting rights cannot be attributed to me or my office. "We tried to ask CAF to give us more time but the general risks surrounding the General Election is something they couldn’t agree with,” he said.   What next for Kenya after Caf takes away football event?