Wiper Democratic Movement leader Kalonzo Musyoka and other leaders from Ukambani have denounced a visit to State House by a grouping of Kamba leaders, describing them as self-seekers who do not represent the interests of the community. The leaders said most of those visiting State House were losers in the last election and could therefore not be said to speak for the people. The Kalonzo team included Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu, Wavinya Ndeti, senators Mutula Kilonzo (Makueni) and Enoch Wambua (Kitui ), 10 MPs, and elected MCAs from Kitui, Machakos and Makueni counties. JUBILEE VOTES They also resolved to intensity campaigns in the region to ensure that residents vote for Nasa presidential candidate Raila Odinga as a bloc. “Those who went to State House went to receive some funds but they should tell the President that back home, things are terrible. "There are no votes that they can deliver to Jubilee,” Mr Musyoka said, adding that Jubilee would be lucky to get 10,000 votes from the region in the repeat polls. MUTHAMA ARRESTHe however added that the group should not be ostracised as they were still members of the Akamba community. Mr Musyoka also condemned the arrest of former Machakos Senator Johnson Muthama for alleged hate speech, saying it was not necessary to arrest him whenever Gatundu MP Moses Kuria was arrested. DAVID MUSILA Former Kitui senator David Musila was particularly singled out by some MCAs for leading the group to State House. The leaders said Mr Musila should have honourably retired given his advanced age instead of misleading the community. They said Mr Musila had served in the government for many years and that he had no reason to go begging at State House. POLL AGENTS Ms Ngilu said there was nothing to gain from supporting the Jubilee government, saying she had supported it and lived to regret it when she was kicked out. She also pointed out that Mr Musyoka had supported the Kibaki government but the Kamba community did not benefit much. The governor said it is imperative for the IEBC to be overhauled before fresh elections are held. The leaders resolved that all elected MCAs will act as agents in the repeat presidential election.   The Musila-led group will face off with the Nasa-leaning faction headed by Charity Ngilu.