I wish to simultaneously respond to both Tom Osanjo and Moses Ojwang s commentaries of four weeks ago with regard to the behaviour of Muhoroni Youth FC Chairman Moses Adagala and his club, and also on the issue of players registration (cards) licence.For a club like Muhoroni Youth FC struggling to continue participating in a Premier League with very meagre resources is painful to unnecessarily lose such a staggering amount of money, Sh1,150,000 due to lack of decorum from an official. In addition to Sh1 million, there was also Sh150,000 earlier imposed on the club for also causing trouble in a match the Club lost 3-0 against Nzoia Sugar FC at Muhoroni on May 20, 2017. Hopefully, with these unfortunate hefty penalties, both Adagala and the club will do some soul searching and get to know that there are certain musts to be observed in a football match irrespective of whether you are the host or a visiting teams for the entire match day not just the 90 minutes of play. In addition to what is now a record breaking hefty penalty (previous was Sh1 million against Gor Mahia FC) Adagala was admonished from attending any KPL matches for 120 days not 60 day as you stated. It is 60 days in a case lodged by Kakamega Homeboyz and another 60 days in a case lodged by Ulinzi Stars FC and are to run consecutively.I also wish to correct and clarify to Osanjo that my friend and mentor in football refereeing he referred to in the Baruti FC match incident was the late Williams Humphreys Ngaah aka Sir Williams Ngaah (RIP) and not Jacob.Unless Osanjo confused him with yet another referee colleague the late Jacob Adhanja (RIP) who was at one time the Secretary General of Kenya Football Referees Association at the rein of the then KFF chairman Stanley Matiba. Turning to Ojuang , I wish to make the following correction:That though the Article 3.5 [g] and [h] is tautological in its present form and gives the wrong impression that the referee approves the players cards, in reality it is the Football Kenya Federation and the Kenyan Premier League managements whose both the CEOs sign to validate a club player s Licences or cards. The match commissioners and the referees merely ascertain authenticity and validity. Whereas the presentation of the licences is mandatory during checking of player s equipment prior to kick off, the match officials have a silent (unwritten) leeway to allow the match to kick off so long as the defaulting club confirms that the licences will be availed before the start of the second half. PLAY UNDER PROTESTThis is to forestall possible riot by fans that would have paid to watch the match only to be told the match cannot go on because one Club cannot produce players licences. It also minimizes late start that might result in a match abandonment due vagaries of weather such as failing light or rain. In both cases the complainant club would play under written protest that must be signed by both clubs officials and countersigned by the match officials. This process is to simulate the complaining club to successfully lodge their appeal in the event the defaulting Club fails completely to produce the licences to the end of the match. In going this direction, Ojuang , you will note a likely riotous situation would have been averted.Though the rules are silent, had Zoo won the match, Tusker would still have been sanctioned depending on how both the complaining Club and KPL jointly frame their appeals either for point .GMT Ottieno is the Kenyan Premier League s head of technical services, safety and security. email print email print