Electoral commission chairman Wafula Chebukati has dismissed claims by Deputy President William Ruto that he had held night meetings with the Opposition. Mr Chebukati described as “reckless and baseless” allegations by Mr Ruto that portrayed him as a Nasa sympathiser. In an interview with Citizen TV on Sunday night, the Deputy President accused Mr Chebukati of playing to the whims of the Opposition instead of serving Kenyans. MEMOWhen pressed to produce any evidence of the alleged night meetings, he instead challenged the IEBC chairman to come out and deny the allegations. Mr Ruto further claimed that “the memo by Chebukati mirrors the demands by the Opposition”. “We are telling Chebukati to stop the night meetings and deliver to Kenyans a credible poll. Let him stop the monkey games and work with other commissioners to give Kenyans and election,” the DP said. He further accused Mr Chebukati of causing scenes in the commission through the memo he issued to CEO Ezra Chiloba demanding explanations on a number of issues regarding the August poll. EVIDENCEAccording to Mr Ruto, the contents of the memo were a product of the night meetings with the Opposition. In response to the allegations, Mr Chebukati, through his Twitter account, described Mr Ruto’s remarks as baseless and reckless rumours. However, Opposition leader Raila Odinga remained tight-lipped on the issue in his press conference Monday at his Capitol Hill office. ODM chairman John Mbadi challenged Mr Ruto to provide evidence of the alleged meetings, saying the remarks touched on the integrity of a holder of an independent office. “The remarks by Ruto should not be taken lightly as they question the integrity of an individual holding an independent office,” Mr Mbadi said. ELECTIONIn the TV interview, however, the DP said Jubilee had nothing personal against Mr Chebukati but insisted that he must do his work within the confines of the law. He said all the issues raised by Mr Chebukati in the memo had been fully addressed by the CEO and hence Mr Chebukati only wanted to create sensation over the coming fresh poll. The DP maintained that Jubilee was not happy with the Supreme Court decision that nullified the re-election of President Kenyatta.   IEBC chairman dismissess Deputy President's claim as reckless and baseless.