SportPesa Premier League champions Tusker host Zoo Kericho on Wednesday hoping to get their title defence back on track. The brewers have won just once in nine league matches, sending them skidding from the summit to current ninth position on the league. Already, Tusker are out of the running in GOtv Shield after losing 2-0 to Vihiga United last month. The George Nsimbe-coached team will be out to avenge Zoo's protests that led to the brewers being docked three points following their first leg match played in May, making this meeting a tricky affair. Tusker won the match 2-0 but the Kenyan Premier League's Independent Disciplinary and Complaints Committee after the brewers played the match without the mandatory player cards. For a team used to staying among the top five places in the league year in year out, confidence levels in the brewers’ squad has taken a major hit going into the 3pm kick-off. Captain James Situma admits that there is need for a turnaround of results, but ruled out poor tactics as being the reason for their dwindling fortunes. “We are used to being at the top, not in the bottom half. I don’t think anything is wrong. We just need to find our rhythm and everything swill be fine," said Situma. "Remember we started off quite poorly this season but we picked up and went for eight matches without defeat,” he said. “There is pressure to perform, but the players here know how to deal with it. Last season, we won two trophies under immense pressure from our opponents.” Marlone Tangauzi remains sidelined with an ankle injury, so is midfielder Cersidy Okeyo as he is undergoing rehabilitation from a back injury. Zoo are still smarting from the 3-1 beating they received from AFC Leopards at home last weekend, and they will require character to conjure a win against thirsty Tusker. On Thursday, runaway leaders Gor Mahia will play guests to Chemelil Sugar at the Moi Stadium in Kisumu seeking to extend their six-point advantage atop the table. Defender Harun Shakava will miss this match for having accumulated five yellow cards, while Chemelil will also miss first choice goalkeeper John Waw who saw red in Sunday’s 4-1 defeat to Sofapaka. FIXTURES Western Stima v Kakamega Homeboyz (Kisumu, 3pm) Kariobangi Sharks v Mathare United (Narok, 3pm) Nzoia Sugar v Bandari (Sudi, 3pm) Thika United v Nakumatt (Thika United, 4pm) Posta Rangers v Muhoroni Youth (Ruaraka, 2pm) Tusker v Zoo Kericho (Ruaraka, 4.15pm) AFC Leopards v Sony Sugar (Kericho Green, 2pm) Ulinzi Stars v Sofapaka (Kericho Green, 4.15pm) Thursday Chemelil Sugar v Gor Mahia (Kisumu, 3pm)  