National Sevens Series champions Homeboyz started their Prinsloo Sevens title defence soundly, crushing Mombasa, Mean Machine and Strathmore Leos to reach the Cup quarterfinal at Nakuru Athletics Club on Saturday. The Deejays humiliated the Coastal side 38-0 with lethal Kenya Simba forwards Joshua Chisanga and Philip Ikambili leading the charge.  Paul Murunga’s charges then outclassed the University of Nairobi lads 27-10 before whacking Strathmore Leos 33-7 in their last Pool “C” duel. Homeboyz will now take on Mwamba in the Cup quarterfinals today after the Day One that was full of upsets and thrilling moments.  RECLAIM TOP SPOT The results are likely to see Homeboyz reclaim their top position in the Series after other title protagonists Impala Saracens, who were fresh from retaining Kabeberi Sevens and Menengai Oilers, who lost in the Kabeberi final, posted poor results to drop to the Challenge Trophy. Oilers went into Prinsloo at the top of the circuit with 36 points, two more than Homeboyz and Impala respectively.  In the other Cup quarterfinal matches, Strathmore Leos take on Kenya Harlequin while hosts Nakuru are up against Kabras Sugar. Kenya Commercial Bank (KCB) will face Kenyatta University’s Blak Blad. “The job starts tomorrow since it will be useless you win on Day One then flop in the knockout stages,” said Homeboyz coach Murunga. “If we are able to play the same way we did in the pool stages, then we have a better chance against Mwamba.” Homeboyz and Mwamba will be meeting for the first time this season.  Murunga said the level of competition is high this season by with Impala and Oilers, who reached the final at Kabeberi Sevens, dropping to Challenge trophy. “Our goal was to reach the semi-finals and so far we are on track,” said Mwamba coach Kevin Wambua. “Reaching the Cup quarters for the first time this season should inspire us.” NAKURU ON TOP Hosts Nakuru, who are handled by former Kenya Sevens and Strathmore Leos coach, Mitch Ocholla, opened their campaign in style, stunning Impala Saracens 14-10, beat Nondies 14-10 before securing a place in the Cup quarters by beating Blak Blad 17-5 to top Pool “A”. Impala Saracens recovered from their poor start when they avenged the defeat to Nakuru by flooring Blak Blad 12-7.  The varsity students put aside their humiliating defeat at the hands of Nakuru to beat Nondies 22-5.  That saw Blak Blad ease through to their first Cup first quarterfinal appearance this season on better aggregate as Impala slumped to the Challenge Trophy. Menengai Oilers had a false start in Pool “B” when they succumbed to a 12-7 defeat at the hands of the Mwamba, who lost to Quins 33-22 but sailed through to the Cup quarters after beating Western Bulls 19-10. It was the first time Mwamba made it to the Cup quarters this season. Despite losing to Oilers 12-5, Quins had done enough after they beat Western Bulls 17-5 and Mwamba. What ruined Oilers chances is their 15-15 draw with Western Bulls. Kenya Commercial Bank (KCB) humiliated Mount Kenya University-Thika and Catholic University Monks 27-5 and 31-0 respectively before topping Pool “D” with another resounding 29-12 victory over Kabras Sugar. Kabras Sugar snatched pool’s last ticket to Cup quarters after they beat Monks 34-5 and Mount Kenya 29-12. FIXTURESChallenge Trophy 9:30am Impala v CUEA  9:50am Machine v Bulls  10:10am MKU Thika v Nondies  10:30am Oilers v Mombasa Cup quarterfinals 10:50am Nakuru v Kabras  11:10am Homeboyz v Mwamba  11:30am KCB v Blakblad  11:50am Quins v Strathmore 
 