Citing the recent total eclipse and Atlantic Basin hurricanes as signs of impeding apocalypse, one doomsayer added a new twist. He predicted last Saturday the end of the world as we know it. Saturday came and went. The Washington Post a week today reported the Unsealed, an evangelical Christian publication, foretells the apocalypse in a four-minute You-Tube video. Title: “September 23, 2017: You Need To See This.” Predictions of and accompanying horrors of Earth’s end aren’t new. Persian prophet Zarathustra did so around 1300 BC, for example. However, there’s no record he set a date or cited a secret code number in any sacred writing. David Meade, an American, is a believer in the video story. He says he’s a Catholic, a researcher and studied astronomy at a university in Oklahoma. Mr Meade’s prediction is based on Biblical verses and numerical codes. He settles on 33. September 23 is 33 days since the August 21 eclipse, some omen. BIBLE ‘‘Jesus lived for 33 years. The name Elohim, which is the name of God to the Jews, is mentioned 33 times in the Bible, Meade told The Post. “It’s very biblically significant, numerically significant number. I am talking astronomy. I’m talking the Bible…and merging the two.” Meade points to the Book of Revelations. It describes the image that will appear in the sky preceding the doomsday. The book describes a woman “clothed with the sun, with the moon under her feet and a crown of twelve stars on her head…” on and on. Finally, she grows the wings of an eagle and is swallowed by the earth. Meade &Co de-codified the prophesy to mean Planet Nibiru will bring fire, storms and other types of destruction. CARIBBEAN ISLANDS Connections between Nibiru, the woman, planets Virgo, Jupiter, and Earth are explained in a convolution of astronomical and biblical jargons. Meade retains a cover now that September 23 was just another day. “The world is not ending, but the world as we know it is ending,” he said, adding later: “A major part of the world will not be the same the beginning of October.” Come on! Only some parts of Caribbean islands, the US states of Texas and Florida ceased to exist as they were. The beauty of any BELIEF is it’s purely personal. However, NASA and astronomers, for example, say of Nibiru: Hogwash! Isaiah 19:18; “in that day shall five cities of Egypt speak the language of Canaan.” For thousands years, the Canaanite language has been dead as the Dodo. (cmbitiru@hotmailcom)  