Dear Kitoto , I am 24, and born again. This year in March, my ex ended our relationship for no apparent reason. I often meet him in a certain Christian group we belong to, and each time I see him I cannot help feeling bitter. How will I heal from this without leaving this group? But this is not the only dilemma I have. I have a male friend that I fellowship together with. We met when I was still in a relationship, and when he found out that my boyfriend and I had separated, he started pursuing me the following month. I have told him that I am not ready for another relationship; I am confused about what is true love. He won’t give up though, and says that he loves me very much. Unfortunately, I don’t think that right now I am capable of loving a man. What do I tell him to convince him to move on with his life without hurting him since we fellowship in the same church? He says he is ready for marriage next year.  Hi there, Relationships have a way of eliciting happiness and pain in equal measure. How long the pain of breakup takes to fade away depends on how close the couple was. The closer the bond, the deeper the pain. However, even as you mourn, acknowledge certain factors: 1. Know and accept that it is over between the two of you.2. Try and stay away from your ex until you can control your emotions. In your case, a short sabbatical from the group is advisable.3. Allow yourself time to heal while not letting your identity be tied in the other person.4. Know that as a Christian, God calls you to forgive and love those who have hurt you.5. Take time to rebuild your feelings by spending time with people who can help you heal.6. Avoid getting into a rebound relationship because it will only cause you more pain.7. Stay away from people who desire to take advantage of your vulnerable state.8. Don’t be in a hurry to get into another relationship until you deal with your pain You say that the man pursuing you is ready for marriage next year - are you? I suggest that you deal with your disappointment first before you jump into another relationship. Above all, your relationship with God will help you make a choice that is good for you. If possible, I suggest that you seek the help of a counsellor in your church.  