Zara Tindall tumbled from her horse at the Burghley Horse Trials near Peterborough, but luckily escaped without injury.The Queen's granddaughter, was riding 'High Kingdom' at the cross-country course when she slipped from the saddle and fell head-first into the water at a fence.Fortunately, she appeared to walk away unscathed, if a little wet, but was seen by a doctor as a precaution.The royal was watched by her rugby player husband Mike Tindall and their daughter Mia, at the prestigious contest, which has been going since 1961.OLIVER TOWNSENDThis year's three-day event will drew to a close with 90,000 worth of prize money at stake for the overall winner. Oliver Townsend secured the secondBurghley Horse Trials Title of his eventing career. The Yorkshireman became a first British winner at Burghley since William Fox-Pitt six years ago as he took 10-year-old Ballaghmor Class, to success.Piggy French and Vanir Kamira jumped clear but Townend held on. French finished 1.3 penalties behind Townend on 46.9, with reigning British Open champion Gemma Tattersall third.SILVER MEDALTom McEwen completed an all-British four top with Toledo De Kerser.Zara previousy won a silver medal as part of the British Equestrian Team's, 2012 London Olympics,putting in a flawless performance on that occasion. Meanwhile, one man's misery contrasted with total happiness of 10,000 Elite Racing Club members in the immediate moments that followed a thrillingly dramatic Nunthorpe Stakes at York.Frankie Dettori was certain he had won, only to quickly find out to the contrary.SPEED MACHINEThe Coolmore-sponsored sprint championship had been billed as a head-to-head showdown between American speed machine Lady Aurelia and transformed gelding Battaash.What transpired was not so much a head-to-head battle but one decided by nostril hairs, and although Lady Aurelia lost out, it was not to Battaash, but to fellow female Marsha (Luke Morris).As Lady Aurelia galloped away from York's winning post, Dettori punched the air before putting a finger to his lips, a now customary gesture of a striking rider.In Dettori's defence, even replays of the race suggested he had won, but exchange pundits, aided by freeze-frame technology, were instantly sure it was the Sir Mark Prescott-trained, Marsha, running in colours of Elite's mass membership, who had whizzed past the line, fractionally.PHOTO-FINISHWhen Knavesmire judge Di Clark announced the photo-finish result, punters buying money on Lady Aurelia, were naturally gloomerised.For bookmakers the verdict represented a massive swing in their favour, with their Lady having been backed 10-11, in a big way. For them the result only yielded pleasure. The winning post always has an edge for those close to standside rails. What to do?***One always worries about animals during major catastrophes'. Luckily, Sam Houston Race Park has opened its barn area to horses displaced by the flooding and storm damage caused by Hurricane Harvey.The racetrack, which is located northwest of downtown Houston, has not sustained any major damage or flooding from the storm. The track is sheltering for free, and according to track officials, there are currently about 100 horses that have arrived there. Roads are clear enough. Owners will have to provide logical amenities such as hay, food, bedding, and, blankets. email print email print