World marathon champion Geoffrey Kirui has advised chief protagonists during the Berlin Marathon due September 24 to run a their own race if they want to break the World Record.Kirui said that Kenyans Olympic marathon champion Eliud Kipchoge and Wilson Kipsang and their rival Kenenisa Bekele from Ethiopia, are capable of breaking the World Record if only they sacrifice and sincerely go for it.In what could be one of the greatest races in history, the trio will be attempting to break the World Record of 2 hours, 02 minutes and 57 seconds set by Kenya s Dennis Kimetto at the same course in 2014.PUBLICITY STUNTKirui hopes that it won t be another publicity stunt where a race is hyped only for the contestants to disappoint. I am sure it won t go down to that way considering the amount of preparations the three athletes have invested in their training, said Kirui. I have confidence that Kipchoge and Kipsang have what it takes to obliterate the record. However, Kirui said the record will remain intact if the athletes will not make a move or decide to be cagey during the race. This is a race where each athlete must sacrifice and go for it, said Kirui. TOUGH WORKKirui indicated that the pacesetters have some tough work at their hands with the richest field ever to grace the marathon. It won t be an easy affair for both the elite athletes and pacesetters. We can only pray for them to deliver. Bekele ran the second fastest time in marathon history when he won last year s Berlin Marathon in 2:03:03, missing the world record by six seconds. He beat Kipsang to second place in 2:03:13.Kipsang broke compatriot Patrick Makau s world record with victory at 2013 Berlin Marathon in 2:03:23 before Kimetto downed it a year later.Kipchoge boosts of the second fastest time in the pack, having retained last year s London Marathon title in 2:03:05, missing the world record by eight seconds. Kirui, the Boston Marathon champion, resumed training a fortnight ago in Keringet, Nakuru, and is looking forward for a great return to action either at half marathon or 10km road race in in the next two months. I won t run any marathon this year. I want to relax after my world championships feat, said Kirui, who is waiting for his Global Sports Management firm to plan for his next race.Kirui is targeting Delhi Half Marathon due November 19 in India. email print email print Kenyans Kipchoge, Kirui, Kiplagat and Kamworor among star-studded outfit.