COWS YOU CAN KEEP ON EIGHTH ACRE I have a 50 by 100ft plot in Naivasha and would like to invest in dairy farming. My target is to keep cows that would produce between 30-50 litres daily. Kindly advise on the following: 1. How many cows can I keep on the land? 2. Offer the house design and construction tips. 3. Supply the feeding plan for the high productive cows. Alex Mwai Land is a major influence on the level of production to adopt. Since you choose to go zero-grazing, you can rear more animals on this piece, 20 at the minimum, with good planning per unit area. However, the number of animals will be less if you plan to produce fodder on the same piece. For precise information and feasibility visit, right to advisory@dairycloud.co.ke. We also tailor-design cow barns to fit farmers’ needs. Once you write to us, we will email you a short questionnaire, which will help inform us about your needs when designing a barn. Lastly, a well-balanced ration should always meet the energy and protein requirements of cattle for growth, reproduction, maintenance, milk production and composition. It is advisable to separate cows in groups for optimal feeding in terms of formulating diets that meet their nutrient demands. High yielders demand more compared to low yielders. With good planning, you can also grow maize fodder for silage or use Total Mixed Ration (TMR). The major advantage of TMR feeding is that it reduces the risk of rumen acidosis when compelling cows to eat roughages and other products (concentrates or cereals) at the same time. It is, however, costly compared to silage feeding. Felix Akatch Opinya, Department of Animal Science, Egerton University. **** TIPS ON GROWING MUSHROOMS My name is Vivian and I live in Mombasa. A friend and I would like to take up mushroom farming and we are seeking training. Is there a way you can assist or link us up with a farmer? Akoko Vivian *** I am interested in mushroom farming. Kindly let me know all about it. I live in Athi River. Vincent Bosire Commercial mushroom production can be practised both at small and large scale levels, although the latter account for 95 per cent of the produce. Production capacity largely depends on various factors such as economic capacity, market availability and climatic conditions.   The basic approach to production is the same, however, large scale production is a little sophisticated and mechanised potentially to meet the large market demands. There are six main phases in mushroom production, namely making compost, finishing the compost, spawning, casing, pinning, and cropping or harvesting. Mushroom spawns are available in four types of carrier materials namely grain, sawdust, plug and liquid spawns. Some institutions such as Kenya Institute of Organic Farming (KIOF), among others, offer short courses or training on commercial mushroom production. Sylvans Ochola, Department of Crops, Horticulture & Soils, Egerton University. **** MARKET FOR MUSHROOM I would like to start mushroom farming but I am not sure where to get market for my produce. I am thinking of joining an established farmers’ group to learn more but I don’t have in mind of any such outfit or their contacts. Would you be in a position to assist me? Edward Maina Hotels, supermarkets and Indian restaurants are some of the places you can sell your mushrooms. For training, please contact Ann Kimathi on 0721443198 (Delight Mushrooms, Imenti House, Tom Mboya Street, Nairobi). Carol Mutua, Department of Crops, Horticulture and Soils, Egerton University. **** PART TIME DAIRY FARMING I’m starting a dairy farm at Likia, Njoro. I’m an alumni of Egerton University but studied B.Ed Science and currently I am working in Nairobi. I would like advice on how to engage in dairy farming part-time and where to find Fleckvieh top grade heifers. Kamau For better practice, take lessons in dairy management. DairyCloud, a company incubated at Egerton University’s Centre of Excellence for Livestock Innovation and Business (CoELIB), offers dairy trainings every month.   We also offer ad hoc courses on request, preferably by dairy farmer groups or organisations. The training programmes are tailor-made, completely designed according to the requirements of the client and use learn-by-doing approach (on-farm). The first training this semester will be towards the end of this month on a date we will communicate. Fleckvieh, on the other hand, is a high yielding dual purpose breed with very efficient food conversion rate that make it consume less compared to other dairy breeds. The animal is able to survive a wide range of climatic conditions, therefore, adopted in various parts of the country. Reach Fleckvieh Genetics East Africa on +254712095555/+254727665885 or email info@fleckviehgeneticsea.com for more information on the breed. Felix Akatch Opinya, Department of Animal Science, Egerton University. **** CAREER IN HORTICULTURE I was recently admitted to a university to pursue a course in horticulture. Could you please advise me on whether the course is marketable? And the pros and cons of it. Robert Muriithi The course is marketable and you can’t fail to get a job because horticulture is the leading agricultural sector in Kenya. I advise you to pursue the course and I am sure you won’t regret. Carol Mutua, Department of Crops, Horticulture and Soils, Egerton University. **** WHERE TO TEST SOIL I am a serious mushroom farmer in Mbaruku, Nakuru. I would like to do soil tests to treat harmful bacteria in my soil and confirm the pH.   Where can I drop the samples and how long does it take to get results? Eunice Waheho Agile Mushroom Farm Tests can be done at Kalro Njoro or you can bring your soil samples to Egerton University Department of Crops, Horticulture and Soils. It takes about 3-4 days to get the results. Carol Mutua, Department of Crops, Horticulture and Soils, Egerton University.   Your questions on farming and agribusiness answered by experts through: satnation@ke.nationmedia.com