Josephine Karoki quit selling alcohol to help lactating mothers lessen the pain of breastfeeding through her company, HunySuckle Kenya Ltd. “When I returned from University in the UK I landed a job as a procurement buyer for a leading alcoholic beverage manufacturing company in Kenya. I had studied economics and international development, and I enjoyed my work tremendously. I was even gearing up for further education to advance my career. “Then my firstborn son came. I suffered from breast engorgement. I used a Medela manual pump sold by the hospital. It worked extremely well when connected to the powerful hospital motor but on its own, I could barely get any milk. The pump I needed was not available locally. My eyes opened to a gaping hole in the market. New mothers in Kenya had scant post-partum support. Even obstetricians and paediatricians were unable to offer breastfeeding support unless specifically trained in lactation. “I decided to quit formal employment to close the gap. I was determined to offer breastfeeding support for anyone facing difficulties after being discharged from hospital. TAKING THE PLUNGE “I officially launched during the 2010 Baby Banda Fair. I became the Kenya distributor for a high-quality breast pump company. I was one of the pioneers to bring in nursing bras, nursing tops, maternity and post-natal undergarments, and other necessities for new mothers. It was a huge relief when I processed those first sales. I was finally able to satisfy not only my needs but those of mothers around me. Instead of making a business plan, I consulted a financial expert – Waceke Nduati Omanga of Centonomy. She helped me price my items to include overheads, margins and mark-ups. “For capital, I used some money I’d inherited from my late father. I always credit him for the hand he played in developing my business. I called my shop ‘Hunysuckle’, drawing from Winnie The Pooh. Selling the items online proved difficult so I rented a shop space. In 2012 I became certified as an infant and young child feeding counsellor, lactation educator and infant massage instructor. This enabled me to offer clients a holistic post-partum package. By becoming an infant massage instructor I could also help families struggling with bonding. Soon, the momentum grew and clients referred others to HunySuckle. CHALLENGES “My lowest point came when I had to give up my first shop. I could no longer afford the rent. I had started off too big too quickly. Even after downsizing shops, I did not rake in the expected cash. I decided to focus on the wins and keep pushing forward. I was convinced that my knowledge, services and products were still helping mothers. “My biggest sacrifices were financial, ploughing all my revenue back into the business. We did well but in 2015 profits unexpectedly plummeted. Competing products arrived in the mass market so I closed the retail wing. Since then my business has specialised in consultancy support services – breastfeeding counselling and information sharing, infant massage classes and bereavement counselling for families who have lost their baby during pregnancy, birth or within the first month after birth. My work has a much larger impact than simply selling equipment. ADAPTING TO CHANGE “I’m now a mother of four, compared to one when I launched the business. I work from home and do mostly remote consultations because my youngest is eight months old and still breastfeeding. Before her, I normally made three to four home consultations a week. A home visit takes an hour or longer as clients can be spread across the city. “I love the success stories that mothers share. Many say, “You saved my relationship with my baby.” As chairperson of the Kenya Chapter of the International Association for Infant Massage, last year I represented Kenya at the biennial IAIM General Assembly in Paris. I am also a founding member of the Kenya Association for Breastfeeding (KAB.) Being a part of KAB is a dream come true because HunySuckle was never the end for me. Belonging to an organisation that could influence policy in Kenya was always my ultimate goal. “My business has enabled me contribute in so many fulfilling ways. Education is the best gift I can give so I frequently share what I learn with younger family members and trainee counsellors. I’m also supporting 10 underprivileged children, paying their fees ranging from nursery to university. “Lack of support from employers forces many women to choose between their careers and their families. Many turn to entrepreneurship. I’ve learned that entrepreneurship is not for everyone, nor is it the ‘easy’ way out. It requires grit and humility. You must accept failures as learning experiences. You must make financial sacrifices and focus on long term success. Success is not only defined by profits and high turnover. My greatest success has been the impact of my business – my passion – on mothers and families.”  *** HOW SHE DID IT 1. Create a business that solves a problem for your target audience. 2. Continue growing in knowledge and expertise. 3. Don’t be afraid to evolve with the changing market. 4. Use professionals in branding and running your business.  