Kenya Ports Authority teams will step up their campaign to reach Kenya Basketball Federation Premier League play-offs this weekend when they play three make-or-break return leg matches at Nyayo Stadium Gymnasium this weekend. On Saturday, KPA women play hosts Zetech University starting at 11.30am. Men’s league champions KPA also take to the court Saturday against wounded Lions starting at 2.30pm. Sunday , KPA men will conclude their two-match tour of Nairobi against Zetech University at Nyayo Stadium Gymnasium starting 2.30pm. KPA women, who are unbeaten so far in 12 outings, are left with only one key match in Nairobi before they host Strathmore University in Mombasa on September 9. WON MEN'S TITLE KPA reclaimed the men’s Premier League title last season after 23 years of waiting, and coach Anthony Ojukwu’s charges need to win the remaining eight matches to be assured of a place in the competitive six-team play-offs. KPA are currently sixth in the league standings with 25 points, having won 11 matches and lost three. League leaders Ulinzi Warriors, on 31 points, are KPA’s main challengers alongside Co-op Bank, Blades and Umoja in the race for a top six finish as teams chase tickets to the play-offs. Top two teams earn a direct ticket to play-off semi-finals, while the remaining four to square it out in the quarter-finals. KPA men demolished Thunder 80-55 in their last match in Nairobi and forwards Evans letting, Victor Odendo, Samuel Ocholla and point guard Victor Bosire are expected to lead the team against newcomers Zetech University. Zetech, coached by Job Munene, joined the Premier League this year and are lying bottom on the table of standings with 17 points. Sunday, Lions will face KPA. Lions fell 67-55 to high-riding Blades last week, and Harrison Kaudia, Dennis ‘Dikembe’’ Opiyo and Brian Kuria will have to be at their best tomorrow if they are to beat KPA. FIXTURES Saturday: At Nyayo: Barclays Bank v Nebulas (10am), Zetech University v KPA-women (11.30am), Equity Bank v Western Delight (1pm), Lions v KPA (2.30pm), KCA-U v Equity Bank (4pm). Upper Hill School: KCA-U v Masaku Sparks (11.30am), Little Prince v Emyba (1pm), Terrorists v Upper Hill School (2.30pm).Menengai High School: Egerton University v Gladiators (9am), Egerton University v Blazers (10.30am), Nakuru Club v Eldonets (12pm). Sunday: At Nyayo: Zetech University v Western Delight (8.30am), Barclays Bank v KAA (10am), Equity Bank v Storms (11.30am), KCA-U v Blades (1pm), Zetech University v KPA-men (2.30pm), Co-op Bank v Umoja (4pm).Upper Hill School: Terrorists v Eldonets (8.30am), Strathmore University v Nebulas (10am), KCA-U v Gladiators (11.30am), NIBS v KDF Morans (1pm), Emyba v 4 Christ (2.30pm).  