Veterinary officers have killed seven dogs that mauled two year old grandson of late Nyeri Governor Nderitu Gachagua to death. The pack was poisoned in the presence of Gachagua's family members. The veterinary officers said poisoning is more humane and easier way to put down the dogs. Wilson Ngatia was killed earlier this month in Ring Road Estate, Nyeri town. ATTACKED He was playing outside the Gachagua house when the dogs from another homestead gained entry into the compound and attacked him. Nyeri Central Divisional Police Commander Muinde Kioko said the decision was made after the owner and residents agreed that the dogs are a security threat. “There was also a lot of concern from neighbours who felt unsafe so we decided that it is best we put them down for the sake of everyone’s safety,” said Mr Kioko. Following last week’s vicious attack that happened at Gachagua’s home, the canines were placed in custody of a government veterinary officer for the purpose of observation. Gachagua’s widow said that she was glad that the dogs were put down and the family felt at peace. ANIMAL RIGHTS GROUP “We are happy that they are being put down because it has been difficult for us. We are also happy because the vet has assured that they are doing it in a more humane way that what we had to endure,” said Mrs Nderitu. The execution of the hounds happened despite protests by an animal rights group who had earlier called for pardon of the dogs. World Animal Protection group earlier argued that the owner of the dogs should be held responsible saying the dogs could have acted out of mistreatment. "Just like humans dogs have fundamental freedoms, which if violated can lead to unusual aggression to the extent of attacking and killing people including their owners," Dr Emily Mudoga, the Companion Animals Campaigns Manager at World Animal Protection, said in the earlier statement. The dog’s owner and their handler have since been charged in court with negligence and recklessness while handling the canines. Ngatia is expected to be buried on Friday in Karatina.   Canines overpower former Nyeri First Lady Margaret Karungaru.