Following Hurricane Harvey and Irma in US states adjacent to the Gulf of Mexico and the Atlantic coasts it’ worth revisiting a Biblical writing. Because of various translations—at least 50 by this writer’s count—it’s not clear what the author of Jeremiah 5:21 actually wrote. Suffice to say “eye and not see; ears and not hear” feature prominently. Hurricane Harvey first hit the state of Texas off the Gulf of Mexico and Irma following with a strike in Flora from the Atlantic. President Donald Trump, and his chief of Environmental Protection Agency, Scott Pruitt, is worth attention. That’s because Trump has threatened to pull the US out of the Paris agreement on climate change, global warming being a major factor and  Pruitt, notable for loathing Federal Government environmental protection legislations, is Trump’ hatchet to tear them. Remember the US is polluter-in-chief of the atmosphere, the solid earth and the seas. DONALD TRUMP Mr Trump, in his famous and infamous Twitter feeds, exhausted superlatives—begging with BIG in the English language in the two weeks Harvey and Irma hammered to near waste Texas and Florida. That’s saying nothing of Caribbean islands the hurricanes turned into fields a lawn mower from the sky passed through. Space doesn’t allow alliterations of Trump’s “Wow. Now experts are calling Harvey a one in a 5000 years” type feeds. Suffice some are littered with “epic,” “historic,” “unprecedented.” Add any other pick! Yet The Washington Post reported Trump on Thursday telling reporters on his way from inspecting—and praising himself and his sidekicks—telling reporters “We’ve had bigger storms than this.”  What happened to “unprecedented?”  He went on to talk about bigger storms in past decades. HURRICANE “That’s just not correct,” said Kerry Emanuel, a hurricane expert at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. That’s because statistically, there are many measures for Hurricanes to measure up to Trump’s “bigger.” For example: Harvey for most rainfall in continental US, Irma for maintaining Category 5 weed speeds, the highest rating, for three days. That’s saying nothing of diameter, storm surges, ad infinitum of the nature of hurricanes. As The Post article noted, with supportive information, occurrences alone of “superlative storms…does not answer the question of what effect atmospheric and ocean temperatures have on hurricanes.” To cut short a long and complicated story, as The Post noted, “climate scientists generally agree that a warmer climate makes storms wetter, pouring more rain, and that sea-level rises makes storms wetter, pouring more rains, and that sea-level rises makes hurricane-related storm surge worse.” Pruitt reportedly said discussion of climate change and deadly hurricanes would be “insensitive to hurricane victims.” Nonsense! What a better time to discuss—extremely seriously, believe you me, a la Trump superlatives—the relationship of what we do and the damages it might cause—all by having eyes and seeing, ears and hearing. (cmbitiru@hotmail.com)  