Those of you who have been following and documenting events surrounding the drama that is my life will remember that when Fiolina, the laugh of my enviable life, started exhibiting the results of the obvious reasons and late night sleeping, my sister Caro became her best friend. Indeed, Caro was the one who came to our rescue when we thought that Fiolina was sick. Yes, she was sick, but Caro told us it was “morning sickness”, which she said was a good kind of sickness. Besides visiting Fiolina and bringing her anything she needed and advising her every step of the way, Caro also accompanied her to the clinic. And slowly by slowly whatever we had done under the cover of darkness could no longer be hidden. Everywhere I went, I received praise and was congratulated by almost everyone. Being the first week of school after the election break, not everyone had reported last week. The few of us who reported did not go to class. Traditionally, August has always been a holiday month and it was impossible to adjust the body to teach in August. But there was another reason why we stayed in the staffroom: the Supreme Court case — that was eventually determined on Friday — was going on and I was the star in interpreting the legal jargon like amicus curiae, prima facie, nolle prosequi, de jure and others to my colleagues in the staffroom. As everyone knows, I always wanted to be a lawyer. I may not have made it, but my interest in matters law means that I am as good as any lawyer. During lunch break last Tuesday, Mrs Atika asked me how many weeks pregnant Fiolina was. “How can I know?” I wondered. “May be I can tell the months but I have no idea the number of weeks.” “Gosh! What do you mean Dre? Kwani you don’t accompany her to the clinic?” asked Sella. “How can I?” I wondered. “Is there a man who does that?” Sella said that her husband accompanies her to the clinic every time. I must mention it is not a husband but some boyfriend who has no job and has all the time to waste accompanying the girlfriend to the clinic. Nzomo also said that Kuya accompanies her. But if you know Nzomo very well you will understand why Kuya has no choice but to accompany her. “My husband would never do that,” said Lena. “Never ever. Jesus will come back the day he will do that.” We talked further and the women encouraged me to accompany Fiolina to the next clinic visit. When I asked Fiolina when her next Clinic visit would be, I was pleasantly surprised to hear that it was last Friday. My sister Caro was to take her but I told Caro not to bother. On Friday morning, I took the first matatu to town and went to Fiolina’s house. She was surprised to see me. “What brings you this early?” She asked upon seeing me. “Or you came to check if some man slept here?” She was pleasantly surprised to hear that I had come to take her to the clinic. She couldn’t believe her ears. I helped her prepare breakfast, after which we walked to school – Sharpshooter Academy. She excused herself at 9.30 am and we went to the clinic. “My gaina has a long queue,” she said as we went. I did not understand who a gaina was but I assumed that was a female pregnancy expert. We arrived at the clinic at 10.13 am. There was a long queue of women. Only two were accompanied by men, both who looked ashamed and hid their faces in old magazines at the clinic. I also took one magazine and started reading. That was when I learned she had meant gynae, short for gynaecologist. It was about 2 pm when Fiolina’s name was called. I accompanied her and as we entered the doctor’s room, I was shocked to find that the doctor was a man. “How are we doing since last time,” he asked Fiolina once we were seated. He wrote as Fiolina answered, and never looked at me. I did not need a calculator to tell that he was disappointed that I had accompanied Fiolina to the clinic. He asked more questions, and wrote even more. “Good, everything is coming along as expected,” he said, I want to recommend some drug for you but let me examine you before I do that. Get ready,” he said, pointing at a bed enclosed in curtains, without looking at me. Fiolina walked there and closed the curtains behind, as the doctor kept writing profusely, as if he was writing a novel. “Tell me when you are ready,” he said. Once Fiolina said she was ready, he washed his hands, wore gloves, then walked to the enclosure without looking at me, clearly unsettled that I was in, and closed the curtains behind. I could not believe my eyes. That here was a man, with my naked wife, in an enclosed room while I sat there and could not do anything. There was more. “How do you feel when I touch you here?” I heard him ask Fiolina several time. “And here?” I could hear them laugh and giggle. “Good, very good, very nice,” I heard him say. I could not take it anymore, especially when I saw her clothes on the floor. I stood up, opened the curtains and walked in. Fiolina was half naked, and the doctor, gloves in hand, was touching her stomach and other places that I cannot write in a family newspaper. He seemed to enjoy what he was doing and Fiolina was also clearly enjoying. “What is happening here?” I asked as I entered. “What do you think is happening?” he asked me. “Do you want to come help me examine your wife? Please wear gloves and come,” he said calmly. “What are you thinking Dre?” asked Fiolina. “Go back and wait for us outside!” I only left after ascertaining that the doctor was fully dressed. They were done shortly after and as Fiolina dressed up, the doctor removed his gloves, washed his hands and started writing profusely. Fiolina joined us a few minutes later, and the doctor gave her a list of drugs to buy. He still could not look me in the eyes. Fiolina took the prescription, put it in her bag and stood to leave. “I am very sorry doctor,” she said. “Should I see you after four weeks?” she asked him. “Only if you will come alone,” he said. “If your husband is not comfortable with me, please find another doctor.” “Don’t worry about him, anakuanga hivyo,” said Fiolina. As we left, the doctor tapped me on the back and for the first time he looked at me and said; “Never ever step in my clinic again. I have seen more beautiful women! Never come here. Don’t even pay. I don’t want your cheap money!” he then beckoned us out and closed the door behind us. “What was that?” asked Fiolina as soon as we were out of the clinic. “This is the best gaina in town and you have now messed everything.” “What? How can I relax when another man is with my naked wife and is touching her everywhere while she giggles and laughs? What would you do if it were you?” “But he is a doctor!” said Fiolina “I am a man I know what I am saying,” I said. “We know these people.” I was happy to hear her say she wouldn’t go back to that doctor. I would never trust him with my wife. I was sure had I not interrupted, the examination would have been more than just obvious! I told her to find a female doctor. But come to think of it... if I were taken back to school I would really work hard to be a doctor, then specialise to be a gynaecologist. It must be fun doing those examinations – and getting paid for it.  mwalimuandrew@gmail.comwww.facebook.com/mwisho-walami  