The National Buildings Inspectorate has purchased equipment worth Sh30 million to be used in its second phase of inspecting buildings in the city as it seeks to ensure that all structures are safe. The audit will be carried out in Pipeline and Kayole estates with the aim of profiling all buildings that do not meet construction standards hence posing risks to public safety. Speaking during the training of over 40 personnel from various units on the use of inspection tools and equipment at the Ministry of Works Sports Club in South C, the National Building Inspectorate secretary Moses Nyakiongora said that the exercise is a continuation of an audit that started after the collapse of a building in Huruma that left over 50 people dead. PIPELINE “The County Government of Nairobi in conjunction with the National Buildings Inspectorate has embarked on an exercise of conducting an audit on buildings' safety in the entire county starting with Pipeline area of Embakasi South,” said Mr Nyakiongora. Mr Nyakiongora said that the equipment are non-destructive and can measure the reinforcement of a building and its safety. He said that the equipment will go a long way in identifying which buildings are unsafe and after primary testing, they will have to take further investigations of the buildings. POOR WORKMANSHIP According to him, buildings mainly collapse due to ignorance, poor workmanship and failure to enforce laws. He said that they are targeting Pipeline estate as most buildings there are deemed to be dangerous. This comes after a house collapsed in the estate’s Kware area in June 2017 leaving two people dead. “We are starting with Pipeline where we have so many unplanned buildings. We will demolish them to serve as a lesson to those who risk the lives of city residents,” said Mr Nyakiongora. REHABILITATION He added that those buildings which can be rehabilitated will be spared and allowed to function once they meet the set standards. Mr Nyakiongora said they will also inspect a building in in Kiambu County which was deemed unsafe after it started sinking in November 2016. They recommended that the building be rehabilitated. The building is located at Mini Village on Ruaka-Banana road. Tenants were asked to move out before a disaster struck. He added that they have so far demolished 34 buildings and that more will be brought down once the audit is done.  