Until Supreme Court judges release their detailed judgment showing exactly what went wrong with the presidential election of August 8, we can’t basically know what the electoral commission should do or not in the repeat poll. Before then, we would also not know the culprits, if any, in the bungling of the election. To help the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission to craft a new road map for its operations, the Chief Justice should fast-track the judgment. He doesn’t have to keep us waiting till September 22, the deadline he set for himself to deliver it. By the time CJ David Maraga’s deadline reaches (21 days after he nullified President Uhuru Kenyatta’s victory), we shall only have 24 days left. I am not convinced that slightly more than three weeks is enough for radical structural and system changes to such a complex operation. REPEAT POLL The fairness and smooth running of the repeat poll is no longer a Kenyan issue. One of the straight reasons why the election is critical is Kenya’s significance in regional and global politics. The Supreme Court’s precedent-setting ruling has attracted global attention. The poll will redefine the role, commitment and capacity of international observers and set parameters for free and fair polls. All these implications are pointers that the repeat poll should not have gaps. Political players were exonerated by the court and the buck on the failure stops with the IEBC, for gaps in its internal operations. INTERNAL FACTORS On the face of it, the observers’ verdict was that plausible mechanisms of a free and fair election were applied and the outcome was a true reflection of the will of the people. That further points to the possibility of internal factors being the cause of the constitutional quagmire that we find ourselves in. The magnitude of the precautions to be taken prior to the repeat poll calls for serious support from international stakeholders. It cannot just be an internal reshuffle of IEBC secretariat staff; go deeper. These individuals are innocent until proven otherwise. The human error of omission or commission may go beyond blatant mischief. BOOSTING CAPACITY The international community should seriously consider boosting capacity and effectiveness of our electoral systems. The technological standards, as well as the professional handling, of our systems would require concerted efforts from our development partners. This call for support isn’t just at monetary levels, especially considering the time left. We desire and deserve a proactive approach towards ensuring no complaint lands on the table of the IEBC and fail to get an apt and real-time explanation. Some political players have publicly insinuated that they are not ready for the repeat election. A conspiracy of sorts seems to have sprouted among critical political players as well as the Judiciary with a motive to keep the country reeling from one crisis to another. REDUCE CHANCES An internationally supported system at the IEBC will reduce chances of nit picking by antagonising political parties and instil public confidence that there are no local hands hell bent on sabotaging the poll. The Kenyan economy is bleeding from endless politicking and most sectors are experiencing a lull due to the uncertainty of the election year. Our national coffers will be straining in supporting the repeat elections. I, therefore, hope that friends of Kenya who believe in advancement of democratic ideals will come calling and offer support to ensure no gap is left to warrant a judicial intervention when the will of the people is finally announced. This historic exercise should be so peaceful and transparent that the loser will have nothing concrete to grumble about.  Ms Noor is the MP for Ijara. sophia.abdi@gmail.com.  