President Uhuru Kenyatta on Thursday said he was confident of trouncing  Nasa candidate Raila Odinga in the repeat presidential poll, maintaining that he won fairly in the annulled election. During tours to three counties, the President, who was accompanied by his Deputy William Ruto, said the Jubilee administration’s development record had endeared them to many voters. The two continued to fault the Supreme Court for invalidating President Kenyatta’s win, saying the best way to have handled the matter was through a recount rather than a fresh election. Speaking at Amtalla Stadium in Kimilili, Bungoma, the Jubilee leaders said they were confident of emerging victorious in the repeat election. RECOUNT VOTES “We would have called for a recount of votes to show them that we beat them hands down but there is no need. Let’s face each other in the ballot again,” said President Kenyatta. “I humbly ask you people to support and vote for me and the Jubilee government. This is a government that will serve you better than the opposition, which has nothing to offer,” he added. The President said his administration had revived key factories including Nzoia Sugar Factory and Webuye Pan Paper Mills, noting that  they had employed more than 1,000 youths from the county. “Apart from creating employment, farmers supplying cane to Nzoia Sugar Factory have been paid their dues following our intervention,” President Kenyatta said. He said more roads have also been constructed in Bungoma and electricity connection increased. He said that voting for him on October 17 will be entrenching the development trend. MAJORITY President Kenyatta said he won the August 8 polls with a clear majority but because he is committed to peace and respects the law, he is ready for a repeat election. Mr Ruto praised Bungoma residents for voting for Jubilee MPs in the region. “We defeated them in every area. We have the majority leadership in the Senate, National Assembly and county assemblies. They won’t beat us. We are confident of beating them hands down,” he said. The DP wondered why the opposition leaders had no faith in the electoral agency “and yet MPs, governors and MCAs from Nasa, whose elections were managed by the same body, have been sworn in”. “We have Nasa MPs, governors and MCAs who were elected and it was IEBC that managed the elections. Why are they now saying they have no faith in the same body that made them who they are now? They should resign and seek a fresh mandate from the electorate if they have no faith in the commission,” said the DP. SONKO Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko asked the residents to support the Jubilee Government and vote for President Kenyatta. “The President has the goodwill of the people and he will be re-elected. The opposition has no chance in the next polls,” he said. Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka lauded the President and his Deputy for helping him get elected. “Vote for them, they will take care of us the way they have helped me get this position,” he said. Kimilili MP Didmus Barasa asked Kenyans to turn up in large numbers and vote for President Kenyatta. INDEPENDENT CANDIDATE “We are going to show the opposition dust. Let us turn up in large numbers and vote for Uhuru Kenyatta. He is the only leader who will save us by initiating development projects,” he said. Water CS Eugene Wamalwa said Mr Odinga will not defeat President  Kenyatta during the October 17 election. “Let him go home and sit with his fellow old men like former President Mwai Kibaki and leave leadership to young leaders,” he said. Also present were MPs Fred Kapondi (Mt Elgon), Dan Wanyama (Webuye West), Mwambu Mabonga (Bumula) and Bernard Shinali (Ikolomani). Mr Mabonga, an independent MP, declared that he will support the President’s re-election bid. After touring Bungoma, Mr Ruto went to Chepareria in West-Pokot, where he urged residents to vote for the President. KANU LEADERS Mr Ruto, who was accompanied by a group of Jubilee and Kanu leaders, told Mr Odinga to brace himself for a tough duel. “Our message to Mr Odinga and his team is that we shall defeat them again and this time round with an even bigger margin,” he said. According to Mr Ruto, the high number of elected leaders reflects the fact that Jubilee won the elections. “It is clear that we won these elections if the number of our elected governors, senators, MPs and MCAs is anything to go by. Nasa should go back to the drawing board because Raila has no good plans for this country. He must respect the will of Kenyans,” he said. The DP was accompanied by area Governor John Lonyangapuo, senators Samuel Poghisio (West Pokot), Kipchumba Murkomen (Elgeyo Marakwet), MPs David Pkosing (Pokot South), Samuel Moroto (Kapenguria), Peter Lochakapong (Sigor), Mark Lomunokol (Kacheliba), and Benjamin Washiali (Mumias East) among others. Reported by Titus Oteba, Oscar Kakai and Dennis Lubanga   Commissioner Roselyne Akombe's name missing in the statement.