Animated movies mean different things to different people. With new titles every year, the best animation films of 2017 are still unfolding. December will be a busy month for 3D animated comedy films as John Cena, Kate McKinnon and Gina Rodriguez voiced Ferdinand will be released both in 2D and 3D. Others such as Hey Arnold!: The Jungle Movie, Blazing Samurai and The Star, a 3D animation about a donkey and other stable animals that become the accidental witnesses and heroes to one of the greatest Christmas stories have a November release tag. The following 2017 family friendly, colourful riffles will bring out the best in everyone and demystify the age gap. Intelligent babies, adventurous emojis, super villains and minions and a hypnotic hero in underpants typify these watchable pleasures for virtually everyone. THE BOSS BABY (2017) Released in March 2007, Boss Baby takes you to the heart of baby espionage. A secret agent for Baby Corp, Boss Baby, infiltrates a family that works for a rival company, Puppy Co. that is out to make sure puppies are getting more love than babies.   Together with Tim, the family child, they must make sure Puppy Co. founder, Francis does not lay his hands on the secret baby formula that affords Boss Baby an intelligence like that of an adult. Good humour, wit, great cast and visual resourcefulness dense the plot as Tim and Baby Boss join forces, albeit reluctantly, to make sure puppies do not take all the love and leave nothing for the babies. DESPICABLE ME 3 (2017)   Those who have watched first and second instalments of Despicable Me will find the third a delightful worthwhile escape. Steve Carrel continues his adventure as super-villain Gru and his minions in a whole new adventure as he teams up with a twin brother Dru he never thought he had to save Hollywood and the world at large from annihilation by a former child star seeking revenge for his show’s cancellation. The colourful animation composites insane hilarity and entertaining unwieldy furious comedy with flashes of emotions in between. It’s hard not to see why the unswervingly entertaining animation has made over a $ billion dollars at the box office already. THE EMOJI MOVIE (2017)   Shigetaka Kurita may not have conceived that his first ever emoji creation in 1999 will be a film with a story surrounding smileys and ideograms. Textopolis is the iconic emoji city where every emoji is given a single facial expression. Gene is the only exception and his multiple expressions are not a source of joy as they should. Together with Jailbreak the code breaker and close crony Hi-5, Gene wants to be normal like other emojis. They make the ultimate journey through different apps grappling with a menace that could destroy the existence of their phone. CAPTAIN UNDERPANTS: THE FIRST EPIC MOVIE (2017)   Kevin Hart and Thomas Middleditch render their voices as two exceedingly ingenious mischief-makers and comic book creators who love spending time in a tree house. The threat to separate the two friends by their mean principal motivates the pranksters to hypnotize him into believing he is an unbelievably, silly, mindless Captain Underpants, a superhero. Sometimes the worst pranks can bring out the hero in a person. DEEP (2017)   Set in an attractive universe driven by a marine ecosystem conservation theme, Deep follows a kid squid whose inadvertent detonation of a dormant missile imperils their marine colony in the year 2100, a time the world is no longer inhabited by men. She sets out to seek help with her friends the perky shrimp Alice and the inept Evo, an angler fish.  