Seven people have been killed in a fresh outbreak of violence between two communities in Esoit, Trans Mara West Sub-County, Narok. Deputy County Commissioner Mohammed Noor Sunday said the clashes were retaliatory attacks sparked by the killing of a businessman on Saturday night. He said the government had already deployed General Service Unit officers to Esoit and neighbouring areas to restore calm. “GSU officers from Kirindon base arrived early in a bid to stop the attacks. Police have also launched a manhunt for the killers,” said the administrator. AMBUSHED Mr Ben Meronyi Kolian was reportedly being driven home when he was ambushed by unknown people and shot dead. “The killers could have trailed him during the day and waylaid him as he headed home. They flushed him from the taxi and shot him,” Mr Noor told journalists. He added that the businessman was shot at close range and that the assailants made away with an estimated Sh 200,000. Police officers later took the body to St Joseph’s Hospital Mortuary. Mr Noor termed the attack a violent robbery. LAUNCHED ATTACKS He said a group of young men from the businessman’s community launched attacks against their neighbours upon learning of the murder. Esoit Chief Samuel Naiduya said the attacks began at 9pm on Saturday and went on deep into the night. He said a 23-year-old man was nursing serious gunshot wounds to his leg at a local hospital. The clashes claimed the life of 20-year old Nicolas Ng’etich, who worked as a waiter at Pusanki trading centre, and six others whose identities are yet to be established. “This area had experienced a five-month lull in the fighting, which began late last year and ended in May,” said Mr Naiduya. DANGEROUSLY FLUID He added that the situation on the ground remained “dangerously fluid” as residents feared more revenge attacks. The chief called for calm, saying the clashes broke out when political temperatures in the country were running high. “Young men should stop these attacks and instead preach peace. We have lived together as neighbours for many decades,” Mr Naiduya added. Trans Mara West police boss David Wambua condemned the “gruesome” killings and warned of prosecutions. He said most victims were hacked to death. CALM “We are hopeful that the GSU officers sent to restore calm will be a deterrent to more attacks,” said the police chief. “We also warn those who believe they can go on killing indiscriminately that they will be arrested and taken to court.” Mr Noor said many small arms and semi-automatic weapons were in the hands of civilians, “leading to more killings”. He urged residents to take advantage of the September amnesty for the surrender of illegal weapons given by the United Nations. AMNESTY Mr Noor said the arms could be surrendered to local administrators or the Kilgoris Officer Commanding Police Division. “September has been set aside by the international community as a month of amnesty for those with weapons. You will not be prosecuted if you surrender yours,” Mr Noor said, adding that the clashes were taking a heavy toll on businesses. Mr Julius Simba, a local peace committee member, warned residents against taking the law into their hands, saying it was a sure recipe for anarchy. “Charcoal buyers and sellers should stop transporting it at night as that puts them in grave danger,” Mr Simba said, urging residents, especially young men, to embrace and preach peace.  