There has been an endless debate of whether the small screen has surpassed the big screen in the last couple of years. This has come about mostly because of the fast rising popularity of TV shows on the global entertainment scale. The creativity has progressed to long-form storytelling which is serialised.Most people in this day and age are always eager for the release of their favourite episodes week after week; and the lucky ones have their hours and even days of binge watching shows which are released in complete seasons by Netflix.Game of Thrones fans are currently still trying to get over the end of the seventh and penultimate season. The show set another ratings high with an impressive 16.5 million viewers on Sunday night, according to Nielsen data making it the most-watched episode in series history. The final season is expected in 2019.According to the Motion Picture Association of America, on average, there are around 600 movies created in the US every year, even though the number fluctuates. For TV, the number is much higher. For example in 2015, there was a whopping 412 original scripted series as well as a higher number of 1400 primetime shows on television in the same year. There really is too much television , said FX Networks CEO John Landgraf at a Television Critics Association s stage.Revenue in the global film industry is currently predicted to increase from about $38 billion in 2016 to nearly $50 billion in 2020.A number of reasons that TV is better than film, and vice versa, have been discussed on various platforms. One of the main reasons TV is argued to be better is the fact that shows tell stories in the long form. For example, a single murder case in a TV show can run through a whole season, which is roughly 20 hours, as compared to a film, which is at least two hours.The fact is that TV shows still have the power to surprise the audience and the medium has the freedom of incorporating different genres like comedy, thriller, into one production. The element of surprise between episodes can be real, because one may leave you in tears from laughing, while another may leave you scared out of your wits.The bond between the audience and characters on the small screen also makes for production gold. This may be attributed to intimacy, in addition to the amount of time the characters spend on set, because it basically means that the viewers may become far more invested in their characters as compared to film characters.These are just but a few reasons why the small screen is deemed better than big screen.But popular British statistician David Cox argued that the golden age of television is over, according to an article published by The Guardian.In comparison to the long-form stories that are portrayed in small screens, films are seen to shoehorn the intricacy of real life into at least two hours of production.Some people also believe that TV shows overstay their welcome; meaning that they think the shows would be far more effective if acted out as films. This may also be the case when some people argue that shows become boring over time because the storyline becomes too stretched out so as to cover the intended number of episodes.Film is further believed to make meaning to events that really happened in the past. Films like 12 Years a Slave, Tears of the Sun and Hotel Rwanda, among many others, have been able to confront man s inhumanity to another man. This needs to be shown to people in order to understand and appreciate the past events that formed current events.The line between film and television is however, being blurred more and more every day, not only in terms of quality, but in sheer production values as well, all thanks to channels like HBO and Netflix.In the recent past, actors would go from movies to TV and then hope to never go back, but now a number of well-respected actors, some considered the greatest of all time, have done shows or mini-series. People as talented and respected as Al Pacino, F. Murray Abraham, Mike Tyson and Frances McDormand have done stints on various TV sets.The same applies to writers and directors, with people like David Fincher and Martin Scorsese being involved with small screen ventures.With larger budgets, better talent, and more runtime to develop characters, has TV really given film a run for its money? email print email print