Nasa presidential candidate Raila Odinga on Saturday made fresh claims against the electoral agency, accusing it of conniving with Jubilee to inflate the cost of the repeat presidential election. While calling on his supporters to turn out in large numbers to send President Uhuru Kenyatta home, Mr Odinga accused the Jubilee leadership of undermining the independence of the Judiciary and threatening to weaken its powers if they win the election. “It was uncalled for for President Uhuru to threaten to take action against the Supreme Court led by Chief Justice David Maraga for overturning his win as declared by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC),” he said during a rally at Luanda’s Mumboha Stadium. “I appeal to Kenyans to deny him the chance by rejecting him in the October 26 election,” Mr Odinga said during the homecoming ceremony of Luanda MP Chris Omulele. RIGGINGSpeaking during the funeral service of Vihiga Senator George Khaniri’s sister at Serem in the county, the opposition chief alleged that the amount had been increased. “Experts have indicated that we only need Sh800 million to have a repeat of the exercise. President Uhuru Kenyatta and a few IEBC officials are going to be the beneficiaries of the extra amount,” he claimed. Mr Odinga also accused Jubilee of scheming to rig the fresh presidential election by their plan to introduce new election rules in the “middle of the game”. “The football match has been played for 90 minutes and we are now waiting for extra time. How can they bring in new laws at this time?” he asked. PROTESTSHe maintained that Nasa supporters will continue with the Monday and Friday demonstrations until IEBC officials who allegedly messed up elections vacate office. The Supreme Court on September 1 annulled the election of President Kenyatta citing illegalities and irregularities during the transmission of results and ordered a fresh election in 60 days. Nasa has however tabled a list of nine areas of reform that they say must be tackled before the fresh election scheduled for October 26. STIPENDHe termed as sinister Jubilee leaders’ push for a recount of votes, alleging that they have “already stuffed the ballots”. “Jubilee leaders should instead advocate the servers to be opened,” Mr Odinga said, adding that the servers were interfered with over 10,000 times in favour of Uhuru. Mr Odinga, who made stop-overs at Shamakhokho, Mudete, Chavakali and Mbale shopping centres, also promised to give senior citizens aged over 65 years a stipend. Former Kakamega Senator Boni Khalwale accused President Kenyatta’s administration of only serving two communities at the expense of the rest of Kenyans. “We should not allow a few selfish leaders who are only interested in the affairs of their stomach to deceive us,” he said in reference to the leaders who have recently defected to Jubilee. BRIBERYMr Khaniri cautioned residents against selling their identity cards ahead of the election. “We are aware that some of our leaders are meeting in Kakamega to receive money for purposes of buying the cards,” he said. Meanwhile, the Nasa presidential campaign team in Embu has started holding strategy meetings in a bid to increase Mr Odinga’s support ahead of the repeat poll. VOTESGroup chairman James Mbogo said the team is targeting 70,000 votes in the October 26 repeat poll, an increase from the 17,000 that Mr Odinga received in the August election. He said that the team will be moving door to door drumming up support for the Nasa leader, adding that they were confident he would carry the day on October 26. Additional reporting Charles Wanyoro   Public participation is a mandatory stage in law making.