Caren Wakoli is the founder and executive director of Emerging Leaders Foundation  Tell us about yourself Caren Wakoli is a leadership and governance expert with more than 11 years’ experience in civil society, media and government. I am passionate about mentoring the next generation of leaders who are value driven and service oriented.   What does your job entail? First, leading the team in achieving our goal of making sure that young women and men are well-equipped and informed to make empowering choices that shape their destiny and that of our nation. Second, I raise resources for the organisation’s financial, technical and human resource. This role is not very easy because many investors and donors like to have quick wins and results, yet leadership development is a long, tedious process and takes time to see transformation. However, this does not stop us from doing the best we can.    You were on Tuesday crowned a finalist in the 2017 Awards of CEO Globals most influential African Women in business and government, how did it feel? It is humbling. But it’s not a lone journey, different people play different roles in shaping who we are and who we become.   What is the award all about? The award recognises women who are influencing different sectors of society like arts and culture, agriculture, business and professional services among others. My category was welfare and civil society organisations. It is aimed at encouraging women to rise up to make a change  in various sectors.   What is your ideal day like? My days are very different, no single day is like another. But some of the things I do on a day to day basis are – reading on diverse topics like governance, political ideologies and leadership. I also enjoy investing time in working out. I make time daily to reflect and pray. I believe in the power of giving, so I look for ways I can be of help to other people, especially strangers. I also try to engage my mentors on a regular basis. I make time for my mentees as well.   Tell us more about your foundation? Emerging Leaders Foundation (ELF) run programmes including leadership development, youth economic empowerment, civic engagement and national cohesion. We target youth but soon we may be reaching out to teens due to high demand for our mentorship programme. We run a six-month mentorship programme where we take participants through sessions for leadership development. We also pair participants with mentors where they get opportunity to learn from more experienced professionals and individuals.   Why did you choose this specialty? And for how long have you been in it? I totally love it, it’s my life’s purpose. Officially, we have been in existence for about five years, but I have been involved in mentorship and training leaders since I was at the University of Nairobi 16 years ago. Both in and outside Kenya.    Mentoring young women to leadership, what mistakes do you find common with them? This is not just with young women but young men as well. However, for purposes of this question, the common mistakes are; limited self-confidence – this is always crucial because if one lacks confidence in the self, it’s almost impossible to get past the hurdles on our journeys. Letting past failures prevent us from reaching our dreams; it is impossible to live without encountering failure or making mistakes but we must never allow ourselves to relent in our pursuit of our dreams.    What are your accomplishments? My greatest accomplishment is knowing me and finding my purpose. I keep saying and I know this to be true, that the greatest tragedy in life is not death but a life without purpose. This is why we are here, to serve a higher purpose.   Who is your role model? I look up to different people for different things. Some of them are Wangari Maathai, Martin Luther King Jr, Nelson Mandela and Mother Teresa. One common thing with these people is their commitment to their courses in life.   What do you do in your free time? I invest time in friends, read interesting literature, watch movies, taking nature walks and lately I am perfecting my swimming skills!   What has been your biggest challenge? Founding ELF from scratch to where we have functional systems and structures, six members of staff and a huge pool of mentors and volunteers, and we have devolved our programmes from Nairobi to rural counties and soon going to Uganda, this has been the biggest challenge. Through this journey, I have had high and low moments and I must say I am better because of these. I have since learnt not to react to challenges but to embrace them and find solutions.   What’s your take on women and leadership? In the various organisations, I have had the privilege to serve as a director, whether in government, private sector or civil society, women have always been fewer. We definitely have more women who are qualified and capable of serving in senior leadership roles and should take up such roles.   What drives you? The pursuit for dignity. I believe that it is possible to have a Kenya and a continent where we all live in dignity, where families have access to quality healthcare, clean water, secure environment and food.   What do you enjoy most about your work? Imparting knowledge on other people is so refreshing! Whether it is in a lecture or in an informal set up. There is just something so special about sharing your knowledge because that’s how to deepen what you know.   Tell us about your family I am privileged to have such a great family – my parents and siblings are a great blessing and motivation.   How do you balance between work and family? I make time to visit my parents in the village. I set aside time to do fun stuff together with my siblings.   What’s your favourite meal? I love ugali and traditional vegetables especially kunde.   What do you spend most of your money on? Books, salon and supporting needy people.   What are your future plans? I want to a be a better version of me, to continuously grow, to love more deeply, serve unreservedly and to leave a legacy.   AOketch@ke.nationmedia.com             
 email
 print
 