Kenya’s economy has displayed reasonable resilience in the prevailing volatile political environment. After the initial shock that followed the Supreme Court decision to nullify President Uhuru Kenyatta’s re-election in the August 8 poll, the markets have regained their senses and are trading fairly normally. The money and securities markets have recovered from the initial losses and the tourism sector is holding on — of course, keeping a tab on the hotbeds of political violence. Foreign and local investors, who are overly jittery when politics rocks the economy, are making notable deals that they wouldn’t in a foggy outlook. The measured business confidence is also driving the activities of small-scale traders in food, transport, technology and other sectors busy earning their daily bread hoping for a better future. BUSINESSES They are more united than ever, through their business associations, in urging the government to protect their businesses from political hooliganism. The national and county governments continue with business as usual, though under pressure and constraints from the disruptive political activities that have imposed a heavy burden on the limited public financial and human resources. There’s a good reason the business community is less nervous than usual despite the noisy standoff between the ruling Jubilee Party and the National Super Alliance over the capacity and ability of the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission to conduct a credible repeat poll on October 26. Businesses resumed and workers returned to work as soon as the results of the General Election were announced. POLITICAL NOISE Even after the Supreme Court ruling, the markets were least bothered about the hyped attacks on the government and the IEBC by Raila Odinga, the opposition leader, and his Nasa brigade. The general feeling is that the pitch of the political noise doesn’t necessarily translate to credible threats against the status quo. It could also mean that Kenyans are tired of dirty politics, which curtails their economic and social freedoms. While they are interested in a democratic system that is supposed to produce good leadership, they have become more hostile to leaders who are preoccupied with power for the sake of being in power but have no convincing development agenda. Presumably, Kenyans have learnt useful lessons from other countries where elections happen without disrupting economic activities. RESILIENCE The emerging resilience of the markets in a sea of political storm proves the strength of the economy to survive bad politics. So long as politics does not interfere with the free movement of people and their ability to trade, the foundations of economic growth will remain strong as national output continues to expand. Political conflicts also have a history of being fairly short-lived. Except for the 2007 presidential results that caused a protracted stand-off between Mr Odinga and former President Mwai Kibaki, most other political crises have been resolved fairly quickly and business continues. It is widely expected that the current crisis will most likely be over in a few weeks. REPEAT POLL But how soon that will happen depends on the outcome of the repeat poll and the events that will follow, including how the winner and the loser will exercise their leadership responsibilities. The challenge to Kenyan leaders is to conduct their politics peacefully and ring-fence the economy from malicious attacks that disrupt the livelihoods of the people. Indeed, they should primarily be more focused on helping the people to survive the economic and social hardships that threaten their survival and the long-term stability of the economy. Good politics is an essential ingredient for Kenyans to remain focused on creating jobs and expanding wealth for a sustainable future.  Mr Warutere is a director of Mashariki Communications Ltd, ptwarutere@gmail.com.  