On September 29, the World Heart Day was celebrated globally in different ways to create awareness on the biggest global killer, Cardiovascular Diseases. The theme this year is Share the Power and there is no better way of doing this than watching powerful movies with the heart at the heart of the plot or with notable mentions of the global menace. From an individual whose heart flat lined for five minutes, scarlet-fever-weakened heart, to a father who is ready to hold up a hospital because the insurance has refused to cover his son's heart transplant, these films are a reminder the heart is life itself. HEART: FLATLINE TO FINISH LINE(2016) Being bedridden and triumphing in a triathlon finish afterward can be unbelievable, particularly if you were an open heart surgery patient on the operating table. The feature-length documentary unrolls the story of six heart disease survivors ready to prove man can rise again. They endure a year-long training in preparation for the Ironman triathlon that consists of 3.86 km swim, 180.25 km bike ride and 42.20 km marathon run in that order within 17 hours. Each of the six cardiovascular disease survivors aims to cross the finish line in an improbable exploit that will test them in more ways than one. Get ready to be inspired to re-examine your life and learn from cardiologists and bigwigs from the endurance sport hall of fame as the six survivors raise awareness about cardiac problems in a way you will probably never forget. The director of the documentary, David Watkins was also an open heart surgery survivor whose heart had stopped for five minutes. JOHN Q(2002) Denzel Washington requires no introduction. In this Nick Cassavetes directed film, he is John Quincy the father of a son diagnosed with cardiomegaly or enlarged heart. If the boy does not get a heart transplant he will die. Quincy lacks the $250,000 required and having been demoted to a part-time job by his employer cannot access the needed health insurance for his son. Eleven people will be held hostage by a father who has every intention of ensuring his son gets the life-saving heart transplant in a film that pounds both the heart and head of every viewer. SEVEN POUNDS(2008) A man is texting while driving and causes a multi-car smash that leaves six precious lives lost including his fiancée. 24 months later, Tim, played by Will Smith sets out on a personal journey of atonement to help save seven lives of honest people in a poignant display that will end with his suicide. After forging his brother’s IRS ID, he sets out on a background search that will see seven people getting his vital body organs, including the heart that will keep a special new stranger in his life alive. RETURN TO ME(2000) A car accident claims the life of Bob's wife. Her heart is donated to Grace, who has lived with a near-death heart disease since she was 14. Over 12 months later, Bob meets Grace and falls in love with her. None of them knows about the other person's connection to the woman whose heart saved Grace's life.  The truth once unravelled will stun everyone in proportions that could either mend hearts or break them apart. X-Files star, David Duchovny plays Bob and Minnie Driver as Grace. LITTLE WOMEN(1994) Between 1868 and 1869, Louisa May Alcott published two volumes of a novel entitled Little Women based on her three real sisters. A classic in many respects, the book had been adapted into film five times between 1917 and 1978 before the 1994 version. A 2017 TV version of Little Women for BBC One and PBS's Masterpiece Theatre that adapts classic literature as performed by popular thespians is filming in Ireland.  The film looks at the lives of Meg, Jo, Beth and Amy, the four March sisters and their life struggles that will shape their adulthood and womanhood. One of them has a scarlet fever weakened heart. A warmly done film, it's an intelligent unreeling of Alcott's classic by an ensemble cast of big names in film such as Winona Ryder, Kirsten Dunst, Claire Danes, Susan Sarandon, Trini Alvarado, Christian Bale and Eric Stoltz. Clearly, no matter how many times a classic is crafted and retold the heart will always be invited.  