Cabinet secretaries have vowed to continue campaigning for President Kenyatta’s re-election in spite of criticism from the opposition.  Water Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa and his ICT counterpart Joe Mucheru said that despite not being politicians, they will continue selling Jubilee party's agenda to Kenyans. The two, including Devolution CS Mwangi Kiunjuri, have been accused of engaging in politics and campaigning for President Uhuru Kenyatta. “We shall continue campaigning for the President. We have been vindicated and we should be allowed to perform our duties without intimidation from the political class,” said CS Wamalwa. They were speaking in Nyeri during the celebration of the 20th anniversary of Nyeri Water and Sewerage Company. ACHIEVEMENTS Mr Mucheru said they would not stop outlining to Kenyans the government's achievements. READ: IEBC says Cabinet Secretaries are free to campaign for Uhuru READ: Jubilee on the spot over unfair tactics “The government has not stopped working and we will continue doing what we are mandated to do. We have been appointed by the President and anyone saying we should not campaign is wrong,” he said. Speaking in Isiolo, Mr Kiunjuri accused Nasa leaders of plotting to derail the election. He criticised the opposition chiefs for threatening to boycott the repeat presidential polls if their demands are not met. Mr Kiunjuri toured Isiolo to officiate the Devolution and Public participation forum as well as to distribute relief food to hunger-stricken families in Modogashe, Merti and Kinna, a day after the President met leaders from the pastoralist communities at State House, Nairobi.  MISLEADING KENYANS Mr Wamalwa also warned Nasa leaders against misleading Kenyans with claims that there will be a constitutional crisis should the election not be held within 60 days. He said the utterances by Senator James Orengo were political and should be challenged.   The CS said the senator should be held responsible as his remarks are likely to instil fear in Kenyans. “The utterances by Senator James Orengo were political and not legally practical and he knows it,” he said.           
 email
 print
 