After their fairy-tale run in the GOtv Shield tournament was ended by AFC Leopards in the semi-finals last weekend, Vihiga United have turned their attention to the National Super League title chase. The Vihiga-based side welcome Kibera Black Stars at the Mumias Sports Complex in one of the nine NSL matches slated for this weekend. Vihiga coach Edward Manoah seems to have moved on from the disappointment of failing to make it to their maiden domestic Cup final after the loss to Leopards, and now says he’s fully focused on the promotion to the SportPesa Premier League. “Our main goal is to gain promotion to the premier league,” Manoah told Nation Sport. “It’s been our ambition ever since we came into the second tier. This time round we must achieve it because I have a team that can match the big boys in the top flight,” said Manoah, whose team is sitting pretty atop the standings with 58 points from 26 games. HOPE FOR THE BEST NSL debutants Black Stars beat Palos 2-1 the last time they were in Mumias and coach Godfrey Oduor is confident his boys can put up a repeat performance against the league leaders, who humbled them 3-0 win in the first leg in April. “We respect them (Vihiga) as the league leaders but it’s a different match and we want to get at least a point,” said Oduor, whose side is 14th with 28 points. At the Moi Stadium, Kisumu, Hesbon Nyabinge welcomes his mentor Leonard Saleh when Palos hosts second-placed KCB at noon.  “I worked with coach Saleh both in the national Under 20 team and Kakamega Homeboyz. He is a person I respect. His side is in good form but you never know in football,” said Nyabinge. “Since I joined Palos, I have not lost in Kisumu. We are doing great but our main undoing is our finishing.” Palos are seventh on the table with 37 points after 25 rounds.  Elsewhere, Agrochemicals will be without three of their key players when they take on Ushuru at Camp Toyoyo grounds. Anthony Chingwa, Andrew Juma and Emmanuel Kapchanga are suspended for accumulation of five yellow cards. Tomorrow, former Gor Mahia and Sofapaka forward Kevin ‘Ade’ Omondi is also suspended and will miss Kenya Police’s match against Mosca at Kenyatta Stadium, Machakos. Ayub Asila of Golden Field Evangelism (GFE 105) is another player suspended for their clash versus Administration Police on Sunday.  FIXTURES Saturday Ushuru v Agrochemicals (2pm Camp Toyoyo) City Stars v FC Talanta (4.15pm Camp Toyoyo) Palos v KCB FC (12.00 Moi Stadium, Kisumu) Isibania v Wazito (3pm, Awendo) Bidco United v Nakuru AllStars (3pm, Thika Sub-County Stadium) Vihiga United v Kibera Black Stars (3pm, Mumias Complex) Nairobi Stima v Modern Coast Rangers (3pm, Karuturi grounds) Sunday Administration Police v Golden Field Evangelism (12.00pm Camp Toyoyo) MOSCA v Kenya Police (2pm, Kenyatta Stadium, Machakos) 
 