There is no need to shed anymore crocodile tears; no need to heave windy sighs. The game is over and we should all hold our heads down with abundant humiliation.  Our faces are hot with shame and indeed if one would put a sufuria full of water on our faces; it shall boil from the heat of disgrace! We have done it again and this time the rest of Africa can laugh at us and we must accept it. In the year of our Lord 1996 our country pulled the same stunt. We had put up a bid to host the Africa Cup of Nations. The bid had been done much earlier and there were years of preparation for it. We put in a strong case with padded up documents and architectural drawings of what we shall have to offer for the tournament. The continent agreed with us and we won the bid well ahead of many other contenders. What followed was a shocking turn of events. We slept on the job and fingers of blame were being pointed in every direction by those concerned. Caf inspectors came time and found that we were not ready. Obviously, we would never have been ready! Even when they took away the hosting rights from us, we were still not ready to host the challenge. Indeed, even as I write this we are still not ready to host that 1996 tournament!  Many years have gone by since that shameful debacle and those in office seem to have forgotten the disgrace. They went ahead and put up another bid to host next year’s edition of the African Nations Championship (Chan).  Our football officials made it look as if they were of new blood and knew what they were doing. Just how they convinced Caf to give us the hosing rights is what still puzzles yours truly. Why did we even bid for it? Why did the continental body even consider us? We are a hopeless people where management of sports is concerned. We are never going anywhere since those sports bodies seem to only attract the worst of us. The most inept people in Kenya can only find refuge there and stick like ticks on the body of sports… they suck until the sport is dead. Now the truth is out. We have lost the hosting rights again and somehow we knew we shall lose it. That does not lessen the blow since it still hurts. The president of FKF, Nick Mwendwa is on record saying that he would resign if Kenya lost this bid.  That of course was a big joke in a country where even criminals do not resign from public office. We know he shall not resign and we will not remind him of that monstrous lie. We now face a two year ban from continental football. Our local players have also lost the place to play in the tournament scheduled for early next year. It is bad and we hereby reiterate that nobody should be given another chance to shame us like this. Whoever bids for Kenya to host any other tournament should be jailed! 
 