It will cost the taxpayer at least Sh20 million to accommodate members of National Assembly and Senate during their induction at the Intercontinental Hotel in Nairobi and Simba lodge in Naivasha. The induction that runs from September 17 to 22 will be addressed by National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi and his Senate counterpart Ken Lusaka. The figure has been calculated on the basis of accommodation for the MPs only, exclusive of their allowances and the expenses to be incurred by a retinue of their support staff, among them drivers, bodyguards and personal assistants. LUSAKAThe bill will be footed by the Parliamentary Service Commission that has organised the event and does not also include the parliamentary staff and trainers for the entire duration. It will also be a training ground for Mr Lusaka, who does not have legislative experience. The former governor of Bungoma failed to successfully defend his seat in the last elections. NEW MEMBERS The 349 members in the National Assembly will be accommodated at the city’s five-star hotel while the exclusive Simba Lodge in Naivasha will be home to the 67 in the Senate. However, not all the MPs are likely to attend given that the event is usually taken seriously by new members not those who have been re-elected. By press time, at least 230 members of the National Assembly had confirmed attendance with 131, mostly new members, requesting for full accommodation according to the House clerk Michael Sialai. PROCEDUREHe, however, said that the number is likely to increase as the legislators were still confirming. In the Senate, about 40 had confirmed with others likely to give their details by Saturday. The MPs will be taken through their constitutional duties such as the House Standing Orders, committee system, approval of appointments of state officers, the formulation of laws, as well as legislative rules of procedure and budget oversight. According to available information, the cheapest room at Intercontinental Hotel goes for about Sh10,600 per night with deluxe suite going for about Sh225,900. COSTThe presidential suit goes for Sh100,816 per night. The rates are inclusive of breakfast, lunch and dinner. At Simba Lodge, a single room goes for about Sh18,000 per night full accommodation. Double is charged at Sh26,000 while triple is Sh39,000. Topics on integrity, how to balance family life and legislative work and how to relate with ambassadors will be taught. The National Assembly has invited a wide range of speakers drawn from various fields of expertise to address the MPs on their roles that include budget making, oversight, representation and law making. SPEAKERSThe theme, “Setting the stage for the 12 Parliament, Preparing for a Smooth Take Off”, will guide the training of members of the National Assembly. The training comes five days after President Uhuru Kenyatta addressed the first sitting of the 12th Parliament on Tuesday. Among those who will address the MPs include the University of Nairobi don Okoth Okombo, Ethics and Antic-Corruption Commission chairman Eliud Wabukala and Dr Julius Kipng’etich, the CEO of Uchumi Supermarkets. The topics will include etiquette, decorum and public relations. TURNOUTFormer long-serving head of public service during President Moi’s regime, Dr Sally Kosgei, will also address the MPs on foreign relations and diplomacy for legislators. Mr Sialai said all MPs have been invited and they expect a 100 percent turnout.   Supreme Court judges skip ceremony.