Wazalendo moved two points off the top three with an impressive 3-1 win over United States International University of Africa (USIU-A) in a Kenya Hockey Union men’s Premier League match at the City Park Stadium on Sunday. Goals from Stanley Chege, Erick Ochieng and Nelson Shiraku saw Wazalendo secure the three points with Brian Kiplimo briefly levelling for the students in the 28th minute. USIU had beaten beat KCA University 2-1 on Saturday and were unable to complete the double as Wazalendo picked them out. “It was a decent performance from the charges, we controlled the game and deservedly won the match,” Wazalendo coach Fidhelis Kimanzi said. In an earlier encounter, Andrew Kamau’s 14th minute strike was all Parkroad Badgers needed to see off newcomers Technical University of Kenya (TUK) 1-0 at the same venue. The result left the students still looking for their second win of the season having just one a single match out of 15 games played.   In the second tier men’s league, Parkroad Tigers secured an emphatic 6-2 win against Gorilla as visitors Dedan Kimathi University downed Karate Axiom 3-1 in another tie. The only women’s top flight encounter of the day saw Vikings and Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology play out a goalless draw.   On Saturday, international Francis Esikhuri fired the winning goal to hand former champions Sikh Union a 2-1 win over Greensharks in a men’s Premier League match. The former Kenya Police and Chase Sailors attacker grabbed the winner via a penalty corner three minutes to the end to settle a tight contest. Davis Wanangwe scored the opening goal for Sikh Union in the 36th minute before substitute, Chris Wokila leveled for Green Sharks in the 43rd minute. And with the match headed for a draw, Esikhuri perfectly converted Allan Iningu’s short corner, firing past Sharks keeper Alexander Muge to give his side a winning start in the second leg. Sikh coach cum player Inderjit Matharu praised his charges fighting spirit urging them to keep the momentum for the remainder of the campaign, “We never stopped fighting and eventually got the winning goal. This is the start we wanted in this leg and we are hoping it will fire us to more success in the coming matches,” the legendary player told Nation Sport. In Kakamega, Parklands secured a precious 1-0 win over hosts’ Western Jaguars courtesy of Allan Odongo’s solitary strike in the second quarter.  