Nakumatt and Zoo Kericho risk relegation from the SportPesa Premier League after the High Court on Thursday ordered that the top flight football competition revert to its original format of 16 clubs. In a ruling that could cause further friction in the already strained relations between Football Kenya Federation and the Kenya Premier League Limited, High Court Judge Justice John Mativo also declared the recently introduced club licensing rules "null and void." Further, FKF president Nick Mwendwa and CEO Robert Muthomi, who were both sued in this case by former FKF boss Sam Nyamweya, were ordered to desist from interfering with the affairs of the Kenya Premier League Limited. Should the court's ruling be enforced, Zoo Kericho and Nakumatt who finished third and fourth in the second tier last year, will be demoted to the second tier. "We await legal interpretation of the ruling but the Kenya Premier League always follows the rule of law and ultimately we will have to abide by it," KPL's CEO Jack Oguda explained. Although minor at face value, the decision as to whether the SportPesa Premier League should consist 16 or 18 teams has always brought about bickering and squabbles between FKF and KPL. Justice Mativo also ruled that an agreement between Sam Nyamweya and the Kenyan Premier League, which was signed two years ago by the former FKF boss - which runs until 2020 - be implemented to the letter. "Justice has finally been served. We should always follow the law or else the risk is there we will undo the many gains made in my tenure. Already, (PAY-TV channel) SuperSport cancelled the contract and the clubs are suffering," said Nyamweya. "A declaration is hereby issued that the Kenyan Premier League shall have a maximum of 16 teams during the 2017 season," the ruling states in part. The league currently consists 18 clubs, with the decision to add the two teams forced on KPL by FKF earlier this year. "The league will consist (14) teams who qualified for sporting merit on the field during the 2016 league season, plus the two highest ranked teams at the end of the 2016 league season in FKF's national Super League," the ruling also stated. "This is a political ruling that already has been overtaken by events. We shall appeal it and I am sure the clubs will also appeal," said Mwendwa.   Ruling overturns an initial directive by the Sports Disputes Tribunal.