Deputy President William Ruto has told Nasa leader Raila Odinga to keep off private companies and stop using Safaricom as a scapegoat to sabotage the repeat election. Addressing a rally in Isiolo Town, Mr Ruto said Jubilee was prepared for the election and was ready to amend the law to bar the courts from annulling an election without a recount of votes. He said the draft amendments were already in Parliament and were aimed at ensuring election results are concurrently transmitted manually and electronically. “The stories about the cloud and forms are useless. There is no need to look for scapegoats. Leave IEBC and Safaricom alone. Do not interfere with private companies because we are your competitors,” the DP said. He added, “We have heard them arguing that the forms were filled and sent to the cloud and later France. But what we believe in is the ballot cast by the voter. All the votes are in the ballot box. The boxes should have been opened for a recount but we are ready for the repeat election.” ANNUL ELECTION Mr Ruto added that the forms, transmission and any other reasons are not sufficient to annul an election and as such “manual and electronic transmission should be used so that there are no excuses in case one of them fails.” He said the amendment to the election laws is aimed at saving the country the cost of repeating presidential elections and ensure the voters’ decision is supreme. The Deputy President noted that no Kenyan would be fired even if the Opposition demonstrates against the IEBC which he said will oversee the election as the court ruled. Mr Ruto, who was accompanied by Lands CS Jacob Kaimenyi, Sports CS Hassan Wario, Isiolo governor Mohamed Kuti, Isiolo Senator Fatuma Dhullo among other leaders, said Mr Odinga has not power to stop the election. COALITION GOVERNMENT He said Jubilee will not give in to the Opposition’s plot to stop the election and force a coalition government. The DP said the election laws were being changed in conformity with the court’s ruling. At the same time, President Kenyatta told Jubilee leaders to remain united and focused to ensure an even larger victory in fresh presidential elections due on October 26. “We are ready for the fresh election. I’m sure we will win with even a bigger margin as we all work as a team,” said the President. The President, who was accompanied by the DP, said Jubilee and its affiliate parties were competing against opponents who were busy trying to create an unconducive political environment laced with tribal animosity. On Wednesday, Mr Kenyatta also met Meru Governor Kiraitu Murungi and his predecessor Peter Munya, who agreed to put aside their differences and work as a team to ensure  the President wins in the repeat election. The two leaders, who  held discussions with the President at State House, Nairobi, said they will go back to Meru with a message of unity. Additional reporting PSCU   Raila meets Maasai leaders and insists top IEBC officials should not preside over poll.