Whatever you do in the name of justice, please remember that gold is one name of a nation’s wealth, that time is the most precious investment in the given nation’s production of golden wealth, and that justice is the measure of how the nation shares out its gold and other material and ideal products of that kind. Do remember, moreover, that time is the most important investment in a nation’s production of gold and others of what the nation needs for it to live an increasingly decent human life. Thus, in a poor country like ours, anybody or institution that squanders time in all kinds of expensive frivolity is committing a capital crime against society. Why? Because, in that way, he or she is digging the graves of very many human beings who call themselves Kenyans. That is why national saving should be among the central doctrines and central activities of the government of Kenya. In fact, a cabinet-level office dedicated solely to national saving might be marvellously appropriate in a country like ours choking in consumer madness. INDIVIDUALISM Yet, for the moment, for a society led by a colonially produced and colonially educated elite, that is simply an impossibility. Dedicated to the most negative aspects of individualism and self-seeking, given totally to reaping into one’s own basket –  that is the central teaching of that same liberalism which Western Europe and North America have recently unloaded onto our continent and worldwide. That seems to be what – in its ideal “heavenly” form – is called salvation. Every one of our colonial teachers advanced the marvellously shameless teaching that God helps only those individuals who help themselves, a teaching which can only mean that God is the one who blessed the inhuman ruthlessness with which a certain class of Europeans once helped themselves to Africa’s property, their absolute lack of human conscience. That was the class from which Africa’s post-colonial ruling class took over at what the culprits still know cynically as “freedom” and “independence”.  As a “liberation” doctrine, it consists in helping yourself systematically to other people’s property without any jarred conscience, the teaching whose ideal is what the Church calls “heavenly salvation”. MORE VORACIOUS The Third World’s colonially produced and post-colonially nurtured elite, Kenya’s being exemplary among them, is a hundred times more voracious – more dedicated to highly expensive daily consumption – than are the larvae of certain insects. The question is thus fixed upon you like Medusa’s face. How can such an elite serve as a country’s most important moral teachers and development factors? How can it serve as the instrument of national saving and justice? Of all the goods that the civil service and the political class steal from their increasingly impoverished mothers, fathers, sisters and brothers and fritter away in the most mindless consumer orgies, gold is the biggest objective enemy of the countries newly independent from European colonialism. Yet – and that is the most glaring self-contradiction in the modern world’s teachings on political economy – gold is among the measures of national prosperity in the official treasury. PUBLIC PROPERTY Thus – with such little gold in its treasury – Kenya just cannot afford to fritter away any vital time in frivolous court cases because time is an overriding factor in the composition of any economic product. In a word, a court’s time is public time. A court’s time is public property. That is why, every time anybody frivolously goes to court, it is the public’s property that he or she is squandering in his or her own selfishness. And, as time is among the most expensive commodities in any society, it is high time Kenya’s public demanded that the courts stop wasting time hearing even the most frivolous of all election petitions. sundaynation@ke.nationmedia.com  