President Uhuru Kenyatta and his Deputy William Ruto on Wednesday met a delegation from Kisii and Nyamira counties at State House, Nakuru. The President said he disagreed with the Supreme Court ruling that nullified his election, but that does not mean he has a problem with the whole Abagusii community. “I have no problem with Abagusii, I have a problem with the old man (Chief Justice David Maraga) and the decision delivered by his court,” he said. He accused National Super Alliance leader Raila Odinga of spreading hate in rallies in Kisii and Nyamira counties after the ruling. HURT He said he was angered by the Supreme Court ruling and openly expressed his disagreement with its decision. “ I am hurt and angry, did he expect me to be happy and laughing. I have to defend myself.. I have to say the truth because I am human otherwise I will be pretending. How would you feel if your victory is taken away from you,” he posed. The President thanked the community for voting for Jubilee in the August 8 elections and said he will soon campaign in Kisii and Nyamira. He urged the community to vote for him again on October 17. Mr Ruto accused Mr Odinga of engaging in divisive and tribal politics saying Jubilee has no problem with CJ Maraga but only disagreed with the court’s ruling. CJ MARAGA “What case do we have with Maraga? Did we take Kisiis to court? We don't have a problem with Kisiis..the only thing we said is we had an issue with the judgment. Raila is spreading propaganda that Jubilee is fighting Kisiis,” said the Deputy President. Earlier, elected leaders and politicians from the Gusii community present at the meeting promised to campaign for President Kenyatta in the repeat presidential elections. Some of the leaders who addressed the meeting include Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui, who urged the community to vote for President Kenyatta. Nakuru Town West MP Samuel Arama assured President Kenyatta that the community will back his re-election in the October 17 elections. Former Constitution of Implementation Commission Chairman Charles Nyachae said the community has opportunity to double the number of votes they gave President Kenyatta in the August 8 General Election. APPOINT The Chairman of People Democratic Party Omingo Magara said his party had made a decision to support the President and urged the community to follow suit. Kitutu Chache North MP Jimmy Angwenyi asked the President to appoint more members from the community in his government, assuring him of their support in the repeat elections. Nominated Senator Millicent Omanga assured the President that she will marshal Kisii women vote for him in the repeat poll. President Kenyatta has in the recent past attacked the Supreme Court headed by Justice Maraga over its decision to nullify his election. The President and his deputy have questioned the reasoning of the nullification of their win and threatened to “deal with” the Judiciary should they be re-elected. There have been protests in part of Kisii and Nyamira counties to defend the CJ.  