Right from the outset, let me confess that I am one of those 8.2 million voters who believe their choice for the presidency was cheated out of a clear victory during the August 8 election through a petition. I also believe the country is headed for a constitutional crisis manufactured and orchestrated by the clear loser in that contest. Beyond that, there is little more to say except that like millions of other Kenyans, I am totally confused as to the end-game of this artificial political turbulence which is making us look like fools in the eyes of the entire world. How is it possible that the Nasa coalition has been able to run rings all around the ruling party with such seeming impunity? One day, history will provide the answer, but by then it may not matter. Even as the rest of the world celebrates the historic ruling by the Supreme Court which overturned a presidential victory — not on substance mind you, but on procedure — it should be recorded that the court may have plunged this country into a very dark place. The level of anxiety among Kenyans is at an all-time high, and things are bound to get worse in the coming days. MAJORITY VOTES However, I may be very wrong as representatives of the 6.8 million individuals who voted for Nasa will certainly educate me with a great deal of invective. Who knows, maybe the age of the Second Enlightenment is upon us and from now on, it will never be enough to get majority votes in any political contest unless the results are transmitted electronically without any glitch whatsoever. What has become quite clear is that there is a marked lack of good faith all around. Nasa has resorted to playing hardball politics with its threats about ensuring there are no elections on October 26. This has been interpreted by Jubilee as the beginning of a power-grab using veiled threats. So it is disingenuous of the Opposition to yelp when Jubilee uses similar hardball tactics through suspect amendments to the election laws. So where does this leave the rest of us? It is disheartening to learn that the only thing to do if you can’t get your way in every demand is to call for mass action during which the gullible hoi polloi gets clobbered by police over “irreducible demands” they have no idea about. Many of them will not understand either what Chiloba has done to merit censure, or even what an Al-Ghurair is, but they have been told these are villains and that is enough. SUPREME COURT RULING But just suppose those who, and they are quite a number, disagreed with the Supreme Court’s ruling and took to the streets demanding that the four judges who voted to annul the presidential election be forced to quit, what would remain of this country? Surely there must be other ways of expressing dissension while ensuring the country remains intact! The other baffling issue is that, for a coalition which was “cheated” out of victory through the manipulation of votes using electronic gadgets, so far, there does not seem to be much effort made to woo voters. In fact, there does not seem to be much enthusiasm for a repeat election. Most of the energy is seemingly being channelled into numerous press conferences with but a single theme: Reform the IEBC or no elections. Now that is where things become even more mystifying. You cannot prove that you won an election by refusing to take part in a repeat. RERUN That is dishonest. Secondly, this country has to have a government one way or the other. Constitutionally, and according to the orders of the Supreme Court, without a rerun, there will be no government after the next 26 days. So how are Kenyans supposed to react to this conundrum? I really don’t know. Better minds than mine have been trying to grapple with this problem, and there don’t seem to be many answers — not from Jubilee and not from Nasa. Can’t our leaders place the country first, agree to meet and negotiate in good faith, and come up with a solution that will ensure neither side of the political divide has any reason to feel aggrieved about election results, thus sparing the country the agony it is undergoing at the moment? We really must get our act together.  The writer is a consultant editor. andrewngwiri@gmail.com  