The country is expected to experience mostly sunny conditions for the next three days, according to the latest forecast by the Kenya Meteorological Department. However, rains are expected in the Highlands West of the Rift Valley as it was in the previous forecast. The five-day foretell report released on Friday shows that most regions in the country are expected to experience mainly sunny intervals the entire day for much of the period under study, with only certain areas experiencing afternoon showers. "The country will largely experience sunny intervals over the forecast period but rains over the Highlands West of the Rift Valley are expected to continue," the forecast said. MODERATEIn the last two weeks the weatherman warned of a likelihood of heavy rainfall over the Highlands West of the Rift Valley and the Northwest. Mr Samwel Mwangi, the assistant director, said the rainfall would mainly be moderate to heavy. "More rainfall activities over western Kenya spreading to the Central part of the country is expected over the next few days with cloudy mornings. "We expect people to wear protective clothing and carry their umbrellas in the said regions," Mr Mwangi said. TEMPERATURESHowever, this has changed in the latest prediction with the country now staring at days of constant sun over the next four days. Central Highlands, a region which covers Nairobi, Nyandarua, Nyeri, Kirinyaga, Murang'a, Kiambu, Meru, Embu, and Tharaka Nithi counties, are expected to experience cloudy mornings that will give way to sunny intervals. The region is also likely to experience morning rains on Tuesday next week and afternoon showers over few places are expected throughout the forecast period. The temperatures will be low ranging between seven degrees Celsius and 24 degrees Celsius. COASTNortheastern region stretching through Marsabit, Mandera, Wajir, Garissa and Isiolo counties is expected to experience sunny intervals the whole day with temperatures ranging between 15 degrees Celsius and 35 degrees Celsius. A similar situation is also expected in Southeastern counties of Kitui, Makueni, Machakos and Taita Taveta, which are forecast to experience mainly sunny intervals the whole day with temperatures ranging between 12 degrees Celsius and 29 degrees Celsius. The Coastal Strip counties of Mombasa, Tana River, Kilifi, Lamu and Kwale are also expected to experience mainly sunny intervals the entire day for much of the forecast period, but will likely experience morning and afternoon showers in few places over the weekend. SHOWERSTemperatures in this region will however be high, recording between 21 degrees Celsius and 31 degrees Celsius. Interestingly, the usually dry Northwestern region covering Turkana, West Pokot and Samburu counties are expected to experience morning rains in few places on Sunday and Tuesday, with the rest of the days being expected to be mainly sunny. The temperatures will also hit highs of 23 degrees Celsius and 36 degrees Celsius. The Lake Victoria Basin, Highlands West of the Rift Valley, Central and South Rift Valley are the only areas expected to experience showers throughout the forecast period. SUNNYShowers and thunderstorms are expected in the afternoon over several places between Tuesday and Thursday next week. The regions cover Siaya, Kisumu, Homa Bay, Migori, Kisii, Nyamira, Trans Nzoia, Baringo, Uasin Gishu, Elgeyo-Marakwet, Nandi, Laikipia, Nakuru, Narok, Kajiado, Kericho, Bomet, Kakamega, Vihiga, Bungoma and Busia counties. The regions are also expected to experience mainly sunny intervals in the morning throughout the forecast period.  