Political analysts, the professional ones, can shape political ideologies and influence the electorate’s political choices for a good cause. These include a cause for liberation from the yoke of tribalism; one that promotes better socio-economic policies by those in government and those contesting for elective public offices; or that which empowers the citizenry to choose their future leaders more wisely. Hence, a cause for shared socio-economic prosperity. But when political analysts act venomously, they emit what I refer to as political analyst hazards — threats to the well-being of the citizens as a result of unethical and scientifically implausible analyses of political phenomena. And these are of public concern. International repute Except for some quacks, Kenya takes pride in its veteran political analysts of international repute — the most influential of whom are doctors of philosophy (PhDs) in political science and cognate fields. SOCIETAL EXPECTATION On the predicate that they are PhDs, the analysts, by default, attract a legitimate societal expectation of professionalism. That lends itself to Wikipedia’s etymology and Merriam-Webster Dictionary definitions of the two words: “Philosophy” and “doctor”. Philosophy is the pursuit of knowledge while doctor is Greek for a learned and authoritative teacher; so, literally, PhD is a “teacher of knowledge” in a particular field. However, to be capped “doctor of philosophy”, one must create new knowledge that is truthful and alleviates significant and widely acknowledged suffering in the society. The truthfulness of the new knowledge must pass the test of validity and verifiability and the solution to the suffering must be radically superior to solutions ever known before. Implicit in the preconditions for PhD qualification are the elements of specialised expertise, credibility, empathy for the tormented and ethical stance —incidentally, these are the ideals of a professional. Beyond these ideals, the nerve-wracking PhD journey nurtures humility as opposed to arrogance; patience instead of intolerance; indebtedness to others in favour of self-gratification —much as the journey instills independence of thought. Hence PhDs, so our eminent political analysts, are expected to be more than just professionals — they are supposed to be altruistic. INSIGHTS Indeed, a majority of our PhD political analysts are professional and altruistic; their transformative insights on politics propel the country forward. On the flipside, however, and contrary to the ideals of PhDs, a few unprofessional but very influential PAs have been on record advancing political analyst hazards. Instead of empowering Wanjiku to choose progressive leaders while showering Atieno with familial love, without empathy or apology they are abusing their prowess, fooling Wanjiku and Atieno. Lured into treachery Their analyses are utterly skewed, partisan, lacking in credibility and ethos — not because they are ignorant of the scientific method or empty of knowledge but their self-interests have lured them into treachery. In recent events, for instance, a prominent political scientist — a PhD —forecasts nothing better than a civil coup out of the recent Supreme Court judgment. The same doctor has been spotted — not once, not twice — spreading tribal speech likely to dismantle national unity. To add insult to injury, some of these doctors are lecturers in our universities. POLITICAL HAZARDS The viral spread of political hazards need not be belaboured. Political analyst hazards must be condemned. We should stand for a ‘tribe-less’ Kenya, rise above political analyst hazards in perpetuity and fight for reformist political ideologies and politics of fidelity to the dictates of the Constitution. Without curtailing the intellectual freedom of independent thought, the Commission for University Education (CUE) should pursue policies and regulations that penalise PhDs, PhD students and honorary doctorates found culpable of grossly advancing that which is implausible or perpetuates human suffering. The Church — from where “doctor” finds its roots and sanctity — should steadfastly condemn deceitful doctors of any kind. The media should assiduously and continually vet the credibility of analyses and morals of their resident political analysts and shun those who do not meet the conditions of credibility and morality, which should be the irreducible minimums. Dr Mulongo, a computer scientist, is head of Information Technology Architecture and Strategy at UAP-OldMutual. abiudwere@gmail.com.  