The 12th Parliament is scheduled to open formally on Tuesday with a keynote address by President Uhuru Kenyatta. But the National Super Alliance (Nasa) has vowed to boycott the sitting on the ground that President Kenyatta does not have the legitimacy to preside over such a national function since his election was overturned and he is, therefore, acting on the basis of temporary incumbency, which limits his powers. Opinion is divided but the reason for the boycott cannot be justified. RIVALRY Precisely, it is an extension of a vicious and intractable tussle between the Opposition and the ruling Jubilee Party. It is part of the game of brinkmanship and shows how polarised the politics is. This is bad for national politics, bad for the country. The tragedy is that this Parliament promises to be rancorous, and that means no sober debate will come out of the House. Debates are likely be determined on the basis of party or coalition interests rather than national importance. IMPEACHAlready, Jubilee is flaunting its numerical strength and threatening to use it to change laws and do things as it deems fit. President Kenyatta has unequivocally declared that, should his arch-rival Raila Odinga win, Jubilee will invoke its parliamentary might to impeach him. Certainly, that is wild thinking and scare-mongering but it underlines the deep-seated hatred and evil machinations across the political landscape. What the political elite refuses to comprehend and appreciate is that the public is thoroughly disgusted and fed up with the perpetual fights at the expense of constructive engagements that can uplift their lives. BOYCOTTSeveral laws and policy documents await legislative approval. Some constitutional stipulations that require legislation — including the two-thirds gender rule — hang in limbo. But in a situation where positions are hardened and MPs thrive on damaging the opposing camp, such pieces of legislation may not see the light of day. The Nasa boycott threat is ill-advised. Avenues for channelling discontent do not include absconding their job. Conversely, Jubilee’s threat to use Parliament as a whip to kowtow the Opposition is unacceptable.  