Kenya Commercial Bank, fresh from winning Prinsloo Sevens, take on Kabeberi Sevens champions Impala Saracens at 9.30am today as the inaugural Sepetuka Sevens gets underway at Eldoret Sports Club on Saturday. The bankers, who are the 2013 and 2014 National Sevens Series champions, will then face Catholic Monks at 12.10pm before meeting Mwamba in their last Pool “A” duel. Handled by former Kenya Sevens player Dennis Mwanja, the bankers are out for revenge against Impala Saracens who beat them at Driftwood and Kabeberi Sevens. Mwamba also outclassed KCB at Trophy event at Kabeberi Sevens. Mwanja will be without three key players who played a crucial role in their Prinsloo Sevens victory. They are Kenya Simbas trio Martin Owilah, Darwin Mukidza and Jacob Ojee, who will be replaced by Nato Collins, Peter Keter, the Kenya Under-20 player, and Michael Kimonde.  Owila and Ojee are down with work and academics commitments respectively while Mukidza is nursing a knee injury. Kenya Sevens skipper Andrew Amonde, who played a key role at Prinsloo on his first appearance this season, will be at the centre of his team’s charge for their second victory and Series quest in the final three legs. This is the first time the National Sevens Series is being held in Eldoret. “It’s a tough pool, having lost to Impala and Mwamba in the past events. We still remain focused and calm despite our victory at Kabeberi,” said Mwanja. Impala Saracens head into the Sepetuka Sevens seeking to bounce back from last weekend’s Challenge Trophy performance during the Prinsloo Sevens. The Sarries will be without key players Ian Minjire, Billy Omondi, Robin Kiplang’at and Anthony Nyandigisi due to injuries. However, Impala - coached by former Kenya Sevens skipper Oscar Osir - are still formidable with the likes of Kenya Sevens players Derrick Mayar, Samson Onsomu, Samuel Oliech and Samuel Motari. KCB beat hosts Nakuru 29-5 to lift Prinsloo Sevens last Sunday. Nakuru will meet Kenyatta University’s Blak Blad, Kabeberi Sevens losing finalists Menengai Oilers and Nondescripts in Pool “B”. Nakuru have made two changes to the side that lost to KCB. Coach Mitch Ocholla has brought back Donald Aluoch and Walter Okoth to his side that has Kenya Sevens stars Oscar Ouma and Nelson Oyoo. Nondies will see the return of the experienced Fielden Sinei.  National Sevens Series champions Homeboyz headline Pool “C” which also features Quins, Mount Kenya University -Thika and Mean Machine. Bush Mwale and Augustine Lugonzo have been brought on board to reinforce Homeboyz. The duo has missed the opening three rounds of this year’s campaign through personal and professional commitments. Leonard Mugaisi, who missed  Prinsloo Sevens where the Deejays finished third, makes a return.  RECLAIMED LEAD Quinns welcome back former Kenya Sevens player Max Theuri.  Homeboyz reclaimed the National Sevens Series lead as they opened a five-point gap at the top despite finishing third at Prinsloo Sevens in Nakuru last weekend. The Deejays edged out Strathmore Leos 21-15 in the play-off for third place to get 17 points for their tally of 51 points. 
  
The Deejays edged out Strathmore Leos 21-15 in the play-off for third place.