Party of National Unity leader Peter Munya has made a U-turn and backed President Kenyatta’s re-election barely a fortnight after declaring support for Nasa presidential candidate Raila Odinga. The former Meru governor spent the better part of Tuesday morning at State House Nairobi where it is understood he was expected to reach a deal with Jubilee leaders. STATEMENT Mr Munya’s decision was informed by the resolution of his party to back Mr Kenyatta in the October 17 repeat presidential poll. “After thorough consultations with party members, elders and supporters across the country, it has been agreed that in the very best interest of the country, we support the re-election of His Excellency President Uhuru Kenyatta in the forthcoming presidential election,” the letter signed by Munya, Secretary General John Okemwa and Treasurer Peter Nkubitu, said. The once ruling party also urged all its members and supporters to campaign and vote for President Kenyatta. TRUSTEES After the State House meeting, Mr Okemwa told the Nation that they had agreed to back President Kenyatta. He said he met the president alongside Mr Munya, national treasurer Peter Kaberia, party trustees and other officials. Speaking on phone, Mr Okemwa said they had resolved “to go back home” a few days after Mr Munya joined Nasa. “There is no big deal in going back home. There is only one individual who did not want us in Jubilee. However we have agreed to back the president during the repeat elections. We will campaign alongside him ahead of the election day,” he said. He, however, maintained that PNU would field its presidential candidate in the 2022 General Election. RIGGING The Tuesday move marks Mr Munya’s short-lived dalliance with Nasa and Mr Odinga. Mr Munya, who lost to Kiraitu Murungi in the August 8 poll, joined the opposition alliance on September 4. During his reception at Capitol Hill, the Nasa headquarters in Nairobi, he said he would not support Jubilee, accusing President Kenyatta’s party of rigging him out. “I confirm that today I have joined the Nasa family. My election was stolen and I cannot join those who stole my election,” Mr Munya said. The former governor has been campaigning for Nasa in Tigania and Igembe over the past few days, amid pockets of resistance. On Friday and Saturday last week, Mr Munya held rallies in his Nyambene backyard where he declared an onslaught on Jubilee by drumming up support for Nasa. KIBAKI The former governor, who was accompanied by Mr Kaberia, PNU Meru senatorial candidate Mugambi Imanyara and ODM coordinator Mike Makarena, held roadside rallies in Tigania West, Tigania East, Igembe North and Igembe Central. And despite being degazetted as the PNU leader by the registrar of parties, Mr Munya recently said he would not be moved by attempts to force him out. He had earlier termed the naming of former president Mwai Kibaki PNU leader as illegal. “The struggle to wrestle (sic) the party from us to block us from the 2022 politics is being taken to strange levels to the extent of dragging the name of the retired president into the mix,” the former governor said. He said he was prepared for a political duel with Mr Murungi, whom he claimed was not validly elected as Meru governor.   Raila's team protests a nine-page agenda and Jubilee's no-show.