President Uhuru Kenyatta asked for speedy investigations into the Anglo- Leasing scam with a view to clearing former Finance Minister David Mwiraria of culpability. He spoke during the funeral service of Mr Mwiraria at Ntakira Methodist Church in Meru today after several leaders at the ceremony called on the government to delve into the Anglo-Leasing scam and absolve the deceased. “I agree with the leaders and truly know how the case affected the late Mwiraria. All the leaders have said it here in church that Mwiraria was innocent.” MWIRARIA WAS INNOCENTHe said the independent bodies should ensure justice is served. Mr Kenyatta turned to Nasa principal Raila Odinga, who was present, and said: “I ask Mr Odinga to join me out there in saying that the late Mwiraria was innocent.” The President eulogised Mr Mwiraria as a great son of the nation who served Kenya from a young age. Meru Governor Peter Munya, Senator Kiraitu Murungi, Mr Odinga and Nasa co-principal Moses Wetang’ula said Mr Mwiraria should be exonerated posthumously. Mr Mwiraria was charged with involvement in the multi-billion-shilling scandal. ECONOMIC GROWTHMr Munya and Mr Murungi said the former Finance minister could not have been involved in the scandal. Mr Munya said: “I hardly agree with my Senator but, on the innocence of Mr Mwiraria, I do.” Mr Wetang’ula regretted that the former North Imenti MP passed on “carrying a burden of spurious allegations”. Mr Odinga eulogised Mr Mwiraria as a man of few words who contributed to Kenya’s economic transformation. He called for a probe to clear his name. He also called for peaceful elections, saying the deceased was a peace-loving man. “I am requesting my brother Uhuru Kenyatta that we keep our commitment for peaceful elections. We don’t want to fight; we want this election to be a friendly match,” he said. GREAT LEADERFormer President Mwai Kibaki, whose condolence message was read by his daughter Judy Kibaki, said Mr Mwiraria was respected for his grasp of economics. Ms Kibaki said her father had pointed out an error in the eulogy that indicated that Mr Mwiraria served as North Imenti MP for two terms. “The former President asked me to ensure that the error is corrected because Mwiraria served for three terms.” Leaders from the political divide attended the service. They included Narc Kenya leader Martha Karua, government spokesman Eric Kiraithe, Lands Cabinet Secretary Jacob Kaimenyi, former Head of Public Service Francis Muthaura, former minister Chris Murungaru, Central Bank Deputy Governor Sheila Mbijiwe, former State House Comptroller Matere Keriri, former Chief Justice Aaron Ringera and former Ambassador Karimi Mworia.  