It was just the other day that the main opposition leaders gathered at the Bomas of Kenya in Nairobi for the launch of the National Super Alliance (Nasa), a coalition they promised would send home the Jubilee administration of President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto, come the General Election on August 8. Three months down the line, despite the creation of a myriad committees to craft the coalition agreement, organisational structures, policy platforms and a power-sharing deal, there has been nothing of significance to suggest the emergence of a powerful political movement. As the four main leaders—Mr Raila Odinga of Orange Democratic Movement, Mr Kalonzo Musyoka of Wiper Party, Mr Moses Wetang’ula of Ford Kenya and Mr Musalia Mudavadi of Amani National Congress—were scheduled to gather at a coastal retreat in a last-ditch effort to salvage the situation, they might have considered that the promised birth could turn out to be a self-induced abortion. FIGHTING ONE ANOTHER They have spent all their energies fighting one another over the presidential election ticket rather than in taking the fight to Jubilee. Unable even to agree on common candidates for county governors, the Senate, National Assembly and county assemblies, the Nasa constituent parties have engaged one another in fratricidal contests guaranteed to split the vote and ensure defeat in August. While Nasa is consumed by greedy, self-destructive duels, Jubilee, with all its faults and broken promises, is marching towards victory in the absence of a credible opposition challenge. Many who hailed the launch of Nasa must be bitterly disappointed at the false dawn. Even if the principals manage to resolve the sticking points over the presidential ticket, they will only have papered over the cracks because it doesn’t look like a united front on the other electoral contests is on the agenda. POWER-SHARING DEAL Whatever comes out, if the parley takes place at all, will be more about four individuals striking a power-sharing deal for themselves rather than anything of benefit to Kenyans. Many of us welcomed the creation of Nasa as an important step in the evolution of democracy and party politics following on the earlier merger of the Jubilee constituent parties, President Kenyatta’s The National Alliance and Mr Ruto’s United Republican Party. The shift from small, ethnic one-man parties to be broad-based national movements can only be good for the country. A democracy where two or three major parties compete for power is infinitely more sustainable than a system of puny personal outfits haggling for space. A strong Jubilee can only be checked by a strong Nasa, but an opposition in apparent self-destruct mode does not inspire confidence that it is a credible government-in-waiting. ELECTORAL VEHICLE Jubilee may still not be a political party in the sense of the word. It is a special purpose electoral vehicle rather than a political party with a distinct ideology, philosophy and policy platform beyond the political ambition of two individuals. But at least, it is focussed and moving forward with a clear vision and game-plan. It was a brave and determined step to disband the two main constituent parties and the half-dozen myriad affiliates. Sure, there was bound to be some fallout, especially with a sizeable number of political aspirants failing to find their space in the bigger outfit and moving on to try their luck in ‘friendly’ parties. Those shifts, however, were not fatal. They were nowhere near as destructive as the birth pangs Nasa is going through. Greed, selfishness and extreme myopia now what define Nasa rather than the lofty goals pronounced at the unveiling. ABANDON NEGOTIATIONS The four party leaders are demonstrating for all the world to see that individual pursuit comes ahead of what is good for the people of Kenya. Perhaps this is wishful thinking, but the four should probably abandon negotiations in which none is prepared to give way, and subject themselves to an electoral contest to choose the flag-bearer. If Mr Odinga, Mr Musyoka, Mr Wetang’ula and Mr Mudavadi do not break the impasse, they will have only themselves to blame if Jubilee romps home in the poll. Finding scapegoats in the electoral commission, Jubilee meddling, political saboteurs, the media or lack of support from the international community will not do. After all, it is they who will have done everything in their power to ensure another term for the Jubilee administration. Email: gaithomail@gmail.com Twitter: @MachariaGaitho  