Kenya Commercial Bank (KCB) turned on the style to beat champions Kabras Sugar 36-8 and lift the 2016/2017 Kenya Cup rugby league title at KCB Ruaraka grounds, Nairobi, on Saturday.A brace of tries from second-row Oliver Mang eni and a try each from left wing Jacob Ojee, fullback Darwin Mukidza and hooker Peter Karia is what KCB needed to reclaim the title they last won in 2015.Mukidza, who was declared the highest point scorer in the league with 171 points, crowned KCB s victory with four conversions and a penalty. KCB players celebrate lifting the Kenya Cup trophy on April 22, 2017 after beating Kabras 36-8 in the final at KCB Sports Club. PHOTO | CHRIS OMOLLO |NATION MEDIA GROUPKCB players celebrate lifting the Kenya Cup trophy on April 22, 2017 after beating Kabras 36-8 in the final at KCB Sports Club. PHOTO | CHRIS OMOLLO |KCB's Darwin Mukidza races to the try line during their Kenya Cup final match against Kabras Sugar at KCB Sports Club in Ruaraka, Nairobi on April 22, 2017. PHOTO | CHRIS OMOLLO | NATION MEDIA GROUPUgandan fullback Philip Wokorach scored a try and a penalty for Kabras Sugar but it all was in vain as the western Kenya-based sugar millers trailed 22-3 at the break.The final was a repeat of the 2014/2015 season which KCB won 27-3. However, Kabras Sugar would win the 2015/2016 title, beating Resolution Impala Saracens 22-5 in the final. It was all about discipline, hard-work and good defence that delivered this victory, said KCB skipper Curtis Lilako. We had to rethink our strategy, especially our porous defence after we lost to Impala and Homeboyz in the regular season. Lilako said they failed to defend their title last season due to injuries. He said his team was also going through a transition after many players joined from their feeder side.KCB coach Curtis Olago was over the moon. Our defence won the game for us, said Olago, who praised his charges for a superb display. I really didn t expect to win the duel by that margin. KCB's Davis Chenge (centre) is tackled by Kabras Sugar players during the Kenya Cup final on April 22, 2017 at KCB Sports Club. KCB won 36-8. PHOTO | CHRIS OMOLLO |Olago said his team took precaution much earlier since they were up against Kabras strong forwards and quick backs. That is why we worked hard to deny them possession, said Olago, who was quick to single out Mang eni, Mukidza and eighthman Andrew Amonde for their outstanding display that propelled the bankers to victory. It was KCB s fifth Cup success after 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2015.KCB's Oliver Mang'eni (left) attempts to pass the ball under pressure from Kabras Sugar's Nick Barasa during the Kenya Cup final on April 22, 2017 at KCB Sports Club. PHOTO | CHRIS OMOLLO |A crest-fallen Kabras Sugar coach Anthony Ogot said his charges switched off from the match from the first minute. We made mistakes at the breakdowns and kick-off. We woke up when it was too late, Ogot said. As I said earlier, the team that was hungrier and wanted it more would win KCB did that. KCB were quick off the block with some explosive show by their forwards. They got a penalty which Mukidza slotted in before Ojee finished off some scintillating open play at the middle with a try.Kabras turned on the style for some minutes but wasted two great opportunities when Mang eni claimed a turnover at Kabras 30m before sprinting for a centre post try. Mukidza converted for a 15-0 lead.Wokorach reduced the deficit to 15-3 with a penalty before making a try-saving tackle on Michael Wanjala.That didn t last as Mukidza sliced through the right flank to score and covert the try to give KCB a 22-3 lead at the break. email print email print Resolution Kisii are the 2016/2017 Kenya Rugby Union (KRU) Championship champions.