Jubilee nominations in Bungoma County will take place in Mt Elgon, Bumula, Tongaren, Kimilili and Kanduyi constituencies. The polls will be held this Friday and aspirants are criss-crossing their constituencies, selling their manifestos to potential voters. Jubilee nominations in Mt Elgon constituency will be the most hotly contested, with seven aspirants lined up for the battle. They include former MP Fred Kapondi, businessman Harry Kimtai, former Bungoma County Public Administration Executive Mokin Ptang’uny and for provincial administrator James Namtallah. The others are Moss Ndiema, Michael Kawon and Evans Chemwotei. They are all fighting to unseat incumbent MP John Serut, an independent candidate. RUTO BUDDY John Aramis, a Mt Elgon political activist, says Mr Kapondi can carry the day if the nominations are free and fair. “He is a close buddy of Deputy President William Ruto, who is a favourite among Mt Elgon residents, and he can use his influence to win during the Friday primaries,” he said. In Bumula, incumbent Boniface Otsiula will face the former Bungoma County chairman of the defunct New Ford Kenya, Martin Nyongesa, and ex-provincial administrator Cornelius Wamalwa. Political analyst Jaramogi Wakamala states that Mr Otsiula is likely to carry the mantle because he is popular among teachers and has helped build over 30 secondary schools. “He is a development-conscious leader - his closest competitor will be Martin Nyongesa, but he has joined the race a bit late and only campaigns within his village,” he said. TWO FACE ESELI SIMIYU In Kanduyi, Mulunda Khaoya will battle for the seat with former Bungoma County polytechnic deputy director Chrisanthus Mukoche as they look forward to kicking out Wafula Wamunyinyi of Ford Kenya. In Kimilili, the battle will be between Didmus Barasa, Joseph Khaemba, John Wenyaa and Rose Natecho. Political pundits have indicated that Mr Barasa is the likely winner. “Barasa is the man to watch, he has always stood with his people through thick and thin and is likely to emerge the winner,” said Patrick Nyongesa, a local human rights activist. In Tongaren, former Nzoia Sugar company board of directors member John Chikati is battling it out with local businessman Ben Chekwanda to unseat incumbent Eseli Simiyu of Ford Kenya  