Prime industrial property has remained the best real estate market in the last two years beating retail, residential and office segments. The good performance is attributed to inadequate high-end storage units in the market. Also construction of by-passes and rising logistical needs are seeing more go-downs set up away from industrial areas due to congestion and traffic, according to a report. A Knight Frank survey highlighting real estate trends in Africa says monthly rents for industrial floor have increased by 11.9 per cent to Sh484 ($4.7) per square metre since 2015. Another report by Broll Property Group, released last week, predicts an eight to 10 per cent rental growth rate in the first half of this year. The report on the retail, office and industrial market says occupancy levels in most industrial areas remain high and stable. Tenancy rates of new and renovated warehouses along the Eastern bypass, Ruiru, Ruaraka, Mombasa Road and within the main industrial area averaged 88 per cent last year. “Most of the stock in the established industrial zones of Nairobi and other major Kenyan cities remain outdated and of poor quality, and industrial area suffer from heavy traffic congestion,” Knight Frank says. “Modern well-configured logistics space is currently scarce in spite of growing demand for high specification facilities and this led to occupiers developing their own space.” Knight Frank further says “rising demand in this sector prompted the emergence of several master-planned industrial parks, particularly on the outskirts of Nairobi where developers are taking advantage of new infrastructure developments, but construction is yet to commence.” Logistic developments Key logistics developments in the pipeline include Tatu City, Tilisi and Infinity Industrial Park. The Broll survey says due to the rising shift by tenants from the main industrial area, it is envisaged that more construction will occur outside the main industrial area in 2017 in less congested and easily accessible zones located on the periphery of Nairobi. “The existing logistics and supply chain industry across Africa is extremely fragmented and inefficient due to lack of quality fit-for-purpose infrastructure. This has hampered the developments of much needed supply chain and distribution operating efficiency improvements,” said Tobby Selman of Africa Logistics Properties. International-standard warehouses are known to reduce waste from poor storage, increase timelines of product delivery and improve security of goods with an overall goal to support business growth and economic development.The latest prime logistics hubs are being built in line with the high-tech specifications and demands — such as refrigeration — of sophisticated international occupiers. The modern specifications move away from the empty “go-downs” to facilities said to “support modern retailing, distribution and manufacturing practices”.  