In New York A Washington-based nongovernmental organisation recently arranged for Kenyan presidential hopeful Raila Odinga to hold a round of talks with State Department officials and leaders of think tanks with a focus on Africa. Vanguard Africa, a non-profit NGO co-founded by a top operative in US presidential campaigns, also offered to provide partisan political advice to Mr Odinga, according to a letter to the Orange Democratic Movement leader on file with the US Department of Justice. “During our time together in Washington,” Vanguard Africa principals told Mr Odinga, “we hope to have a collaborative and open discussion about your campaign, current challenges and the real prospects for success.” A key element of the talks, the group's executives added, would focus on “uniting a centralised opposition campaign to maximise the opportunity for electoral success.” “We feel that a cohesive opposition coalition provides you the best opportunity to both win at the polls and advance your legacy as a transcendent leader on the African continent,” the Vanguard team said in the letter. The invitation to Mr Odinga was filed in accordance with a US law requiring disclosure of work done by lobbyists in the US on behalf of governments and political figures in other countries. “Recently,” the letter noted, “Vanguard Africa supported the winning opposition coalition in the Gambia, ultimately headed by now-President Adama Barrow, and we feel that this model of success can be replicated in Kenya.” In an interview on Thursday, Vanguard Africa executive director Jeffrey Smith sought to downplay his organisation's efforts in support of Mr Odinga's candidacy. “We had a limited engagement in Washington with Mr Odinga,” Mr Smith said. “That's the entire relationship.” He noted that Vanguard Africa, which is funded by private donors, has not received payments from Mr Odinga. “We're not a mercenary organisation,” Mr Smith said. Sunday April 16 2017   ODM Leader Raila Odinga during a past media briefing. PHOTO | EVANS HABIL | NATION MEDIA GROUP In New York A Washington-based nongovernmental organisation recently arranged for Kenyan presidential hopeful Raila Odinga to hold a round of talks with State Department officials and leaders of think tanks with a focus on Africa. Vanguard Africa, a non-profit NGO co-founded by a top operative in US presidential campaigns, also offered to provide partisan political advice to Mr Odinga, according to a letter to the Orange Democratic Movement leader on file with the US Department of Justice. “During our time together in Washington,” Vanguard Africa principals told Mr Odinga, “we hope to have a collaborative and open discussion about your campaign, current challenges and the real prospects for success.” A key element of the talks, the group's executives added, would focus on “uniting a centralised opposition campaign to maximise the opportunity for electoral success.” “We feel that a cohesive opposition coalition provides you the best opportunity to both win at the polls and advance your legacy as a transcendent leader on the African continent,” the Vanguard team said in the letter. The invitation to Mr Odinga was filed in accordance with a US law requiring disclosure of work done by lobbyists in the US on behalf of governments and political figures in other countries. “Recently,” the letter noted, “Vanguard Africa supported the winning opposition coalition in the Gambia, ultimately headed by now-President Adama Barrow, and we feel that this model of success can be replicated in Kenya.” In an interview on Thursday, Vanguard Africa executive director Jeffrey Smith sought to downplay his organisation's efforts in support of Mr Odinga's candidacy. “We had a limited engagement in Washington with Mr Odinga,” Mr Smith said. “That's the entire relationship.” He noted that Vanguard Africa, which is funded by private donors, has not received payments from Mr Odinga. “We're not a mercenary organisation,” Mr Smith said. Sunday April 16 2017   ODM Leader Raila Odinga during a past media briefing. PHOTO | EVANS HABIL | NATION MEDIA GROUP In New York A Washington-based nongovernmental organisation recently arranged for Kenyan presidential hopeful Raila Odinga to hold a round of talks with State Department officials and leaders of think tanks with a focus on Africa. Vanguard Africa, a non-profit NGO co-founded by a top operative in US presidential campaigns, also offered to provide partisan political advice to Mr Odinga, according to a letter to the Orange Democratic Movement leader on file with the US Department of Justice. “During our time together in Washington,” Vanguard Africa principals told Mr Odinga, “we hope to have a collaborative and open discussion about your campaign, current challenges and the real prospects for success.” A key element of the talks, the group's executives added, would focus on “uniting a centralised opposition campaign to maximise the opportunity for electoral success.” “We feel that a cohesive opposition coalition provides you the best opportunity to both win at the polls and advance your legacy as a transcendent leader on the African continent,” the Vanguard team said in the letter. The invitation to Mr Odinga was filed in accordance with a US law requiring disclosure of work done by lobbyists in the US on behalf of governments and political figures in other countries. “Recently,” the letter noted, “Vanguard Africa supported the winning opposition coalition in the Gambia, ultimately headed by now-President Adama Barrow, and we feel that this model of success can be replicated in Kenya.” In an interview on Thursday, Vanguard Africa executive director Jeffrey Smith sought to downplay his organisation's efforts in support of Mr Odinga's candidacy. “We had a limited engagement in Washington with Mr Odinga,” Mr Smith said. “That's the entire relationship.” He noted that Vanguard Africa, which is funded by private donors, has not received payments from Mr Odinga. “We're not a mercenary organisation,” Mr Smith said.