Ganze MP Peter Shehe has accused Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi of using Members of County Assembly (MCAs) to fight him.Ganze constituency has Ganze, Bamba, Sokoke and Jaribuni Wards. All the MCAs from the wards have had a frosty relationship with their MP.The legislator spoke at Mbonga Primary School on Saturday during the handing over of a Sh8 million five-class-roomed building.The building was constructed with the assistance of Pro-Ganze, a non-governmental organization based in Switzerland, funds from the National Government Constituency Development Fund (NG-CDF) and the MP s personal contribution. I have fought many wars waged against me by the governor through his MCAs. He has been advising them to frustrate projects initiated by the national government under my watch just because we differed with him, he said.For instance, he cited a recent incident where some people resisted placement of a water tank at Kafuloni in a waterline project which is being implemented by the national government. It is sad that the governor and his team have decided to frustrate development that is associated with the national government in Ganze, he said.Amid the challenges, Mr Shehe said he was able to construct and renovate 56 primary schools, 20 Secondary schools, 16 dispensaries and opened 20 access roads in the constituency. Although some of these sectors fall under the county government, as leaders serving the same people, I decided to assist and improve the lives of the people, he said.LIFESTYLE AUDITHe campaigned for the re-election of President Uhuru Kenyatta, his Deputy William Ruto and also asked the residents to vote for Gideon Mung aro as the next Kilifi Governor on a Jubilee Party (JP) ticket. Governor Kingi missed the priorities of this county from the start. He never called any development meeting with the MPs, and with no advice, he allocated millions of shillings to non-priority activities like to beach volleyball and the Kilifi beauty pageant at the expense of poor Kilifi people, he said.Mr Shehe called for a lifestyle audit of the governor he said was living larger than life so that the source of them money can be known. The governor has amassed a lot of wealth in these five years he has served. Can he tell the people of Kilifi the source of the millions of cash he is splashing everywhere yet the people are starving? The only way to redeem this county from the pangs of hunger, poverty and poor living standards is by voting him out and his place taken by Mr Mung aro who is a dedicated leader, said Mr Shehe.UNDER A TREEPro-Ganze Chief executive officer Barbar Fuhrer and projects officer Olivia Bossart said they were touched by the plight of Mbonga Primary Pupils who were learning under a tree. When we came here two years ago, this school was in bad shape. It lacked buildings and we were touched by the sight of young pupils learning under trees. When we went back to Switzerland and through friends donations, we managed to raise Sh4 million towards the setting up of this building, said Ms Fuhrer.She added that when they reached out to the area MP, he gave out a personal donation of Sh2 million and another Sh2 million from the NG-CDF. email print email print