Leaders Greensharks take on second placed Kenya Police on Sunday at City Park Stadium in the pick of this weekend s Kenya Hockey Union (KHU) men s Premier League matches. This weekend will see the union introduce some changes in line with International Hockey Federation (FIH) in the seven matches that are on the cards. Unlike in previous years where matches were played in 70 minutes made up of two halves, games will now be played in four quarters of 15 minutes each.There will be two-minute breaks between the quarters and seven to 10 minutes rest at half-time.Chase Sailors take on Kenya College of Accountancy University (KCA-U) at the same venue looking to bounce back from their 2-0 loss to Police two weeks ago. Kenyatta University (KU) Vultures will also be seeking their first win when they tackle Wazalendo in Saturday s late kick off.Matches between Police and Sharks have served up tantilising action before and tomorrow s 1pm kick-off will be no different. The law enforcers, who are seeking to reclaim the title they last won in 2013, prevailed in their two meetings last season.Police beat Greensharks 2-0 last October to seal their place in the playoffs as group leaders while Sharks finished second by virtue of goal difference.Their second meeting was in the third place playoff match where the law enforcers won 4-3. Both teams have had impressive starts this season with Sharks winning two out of their three matches while Police have won two out of two. Sharks coach Ben Owaga is eyeing to exact revenge on the law enforcers. We know them very well and it promises to be a fiery encounter. Our aim is to maintain our winning run and we are confident we can pick maximum points against Police, Owaga said. Owaga will rely on his pacy forwards Chris Muhkanju, Kevin Simiyu, Daniel Obuyasi and Samuel Mucheke to unsettle the Police defence. Police on the hand will welcome back talismanic striker Moses Cheplaiti, who missed his side s 2-0 win over Sailors due to injury. Sharks are a strong side and top challengers for this crown. We have beaten them before but past results will count for nothing because this is a different day and match hence the need for us to be cautious, Police coach Kenneth Kaunda said.In the men s National League, it will be a battle of newcomers as Gorilla take on Wazalendo Masters in Pool A while Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology (JKUAT) will travel to Kisumu where they will play Bay Club Saturday then face-off with Kisumu Youngsters Sunday in pool B. In Nairobi, Karate Axiom will play University of Nairobi tomorrow in another men s second tier Pool B match.FIXTURESSaturdayMen s Premier: KCAU v Chase Sailors (4pm), Kenyatta v Wazalendo (6pm)Men s National: Gorilla v Wazalendo Masters (2pm), Bay Club v JKUAT (4pm) KisumuSundayMen s Premier: Police v Greensharks (1pm)Men s National: Youngsters v JKUAT (9am) Kisumu, Karate Axiom v UON (11am) email print email print