PRETORIA South Africa s President Jacob Zuma has survived calls to resign after his party, the African National Congress (ANC), said they will not be part of a campaign to unseat him. Opposition parties have intensified their efforts to unseat President Zuma, pressuring the ruling party to recall him and requesting a no-confidence motion from the National Assembly. The ANC s National Working Committee held a lengthy meeting on Tuesday night where President Zuma s fate was discussed. The party s secretary-general, Mr Gwede Mantashe, told journalists unity was vital, but healthy debate must be created . There shouldn t be an expectation that the ANC will be part of a campaign to unseat it s own president, said Mr Mantashe. He said working committee had also reflected on the call by ANC s tripartite alliance partners the South African Communist Party and Cosatu for the president to resign, and added that they will engage members on the matter. CAME UNDER FIREPresident Zuma came under fire for axing Finance minister Pravin Gordhan, an issue Mr Mantashe said had been thrashed out on Tuesday. The committee has accepted the irretrievable breakdown of the relationship between the President and a member of his Cabinet as sufficient explanation for the decision taken by the President, he said.Reports had been that President Zuma fired Mr Gordhan over allegations, contained in a leaked report, that he was sabotaging him. The unfortunate events that transpired following their appointment should not and do not detract from the fact that they, individually and collectively, are very capable comrades, he said. Meanwhile, ANC senior officials have accepted that they made a mistake by publicly criticising President Zuma following the reshuffle. Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa, Mr Mantashe and the treasurer-general Zweli Mkhize all criticised President Zuma in public after his decision to remove Mr Gordhan and several Cabinet ministers and deputy ministers. BUDGET DISCIPLINEMr Mantashe who was among those who had hit out at Zuma in recent days blamed Gordhan s sacking on the irretrievable breakdown in relations with the president.Mr Gordhan was at loggerheads with Zuma for months, receiving support from several ministers and major foreign investors, as well as many ordinary South Africans.Mr Gordhan had campaigned for budget discipline and against corruption, but Zuma s allies accused him of thwarting the president s desire to enact radical policies to tackle racial inequality. Gordhan s sacking contributed to a credit ratings downgrade to junk status on Monday by Standard &amp; Poor s, further fuelling calls for Zuma to step down. The president has defended his change at the Treasury, saying Tuesday that the government s financial policies remained the same.S&amp;P said the cut to below investment grade reflected heightened political and institutional uncertainties following the purge of Gordhan and other critical ministers.With the cabinet overhaul exposing deep divisions within the ANC, the main opposition Democratic Alliance party hopes to benefit at general elections in 2019. No army anywhere in the world will subject their footsoldiers to be commanded by an enemy general, said Mr Mantashe, dismissing the DA s push for a confidence vote. email print email print Mr Zuma has been at loggerheads with Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan for months.