Image making for politicians is that if it costs too much then everyone wants to know, who is paying for it? In the US, it brought to light cases such as the worth of Sarah Palin’s shopping spree. And John Kerry’s haircut that made him seem out of touch. There is the whole concept of a candidate being “relatable.” It has multiple perspectives when it comes to image making. Project the candidate’s qualities. Innate, personal professional or otherwise: Whatever attributes the voters project on the candidate; to what a US paper best described as the alternative where image makers bring all parties to a round table as professionals, throwing in a general mix of experts, the candidates and their teams. Image making for politicians did not begin with TV. I came across a delightful scrap of newspaper from the 1960s. Thank you Internet. In it, there was a conversation as to how wealthy political candidates would try to downplay their wealth and how challenging it was to package the great Abe Lincoln as a complex yet subtle man. The May 1968 Smithsonian says there were two kinds of preferred candidates. What was described as “the common man,” and “the military hero.” Locally, wananchi candidates are  people like Mike Sonko and Ferdinand Waititu, while the “aristocrats” cum political families such as the current President Uhuru Kenyatta; scion of a founding father, Raila Odinga and Musalia Mudavadi, and finally the self-made men who see politics as an avenue to greater things, stepping stones or maybe instituting change like Peter Kenneth, Evans Kidero and Jimnah Mbaru. PERSONAL NARRATIVES Female candidates are a class unto themselves with Martha Karua absorbing the bulk of criticism for not being “relatable enough to the female voters,” or Esther Passaris lawsuited background earned her a reputation as a trouble maker. It would be fair to say regardless of a woman’s qualities, her political image making is always expected to sell her as whatever image it is Kenyans have of their mothers; above reproach and impossible to dissect. It might surprise you to know political interactions had no holds barred. It was downright dirty. Modern-day candidates would be proud and viewers scandalised if this were 1817. Still, image making did not begin with live casts. TV did result in political image making growing bigger, louder more boldly visual. It gave the world a young Kennedy and Jackie O and altered the fates of all presidential candidates henceforth, completely altering the packaging of the most prolific of candidates. You would think image making is about who wore what best, when and how. It goes beyond that. Visuals are a very critical part of selling one’s political identity and image. It includes, usually for older potentials who are in the late 60s or 70s, posture, poise, confidence and public decorum because apparently there is a point where clothes are no longer sufficient. In fact, a Chicago paper discloses that this is the one thing voters wait for and use to decide a candidate’s fate. In a democracy as young as ours, privy to the stunts of international media and exposed to US candidate strategies, it can be easy to copy paste. It should be known that the more prolific the candidate, the less likely they want to appear orchestrated and planned. There is also the danger that with the repackaging of a candidate, comes the altering of the candidate’s message. Add to that the fact that candidates do not have the same resources so to come on top a lot of groundwork has to be laid. With thousands of people asking us for their votes this year, image making takes on a whole new dimension. Traditional formats like family portraits, press conferences and rallies that are televised will not capture as many stories, despite media’s best efforts. Social media is a big participant now, allowing candidates to have some measure of control over their own narratives. Small wonder so many Kenyans view politicians as the ultimate celebrities, whether or not this is earned. But image making also has a peculiarity to it. Candidates find it far easier if they have on-stage and off-stage personas, participating in the game of politics instead of becoming overwhelmed by it. This, believe it or not, actually makes it easier to handle public criticism. We know how Kenyans so love their memes and be so very generous with feedback. Cultivating detachment from a crafted political persona is the very essence of political image making.  