There are many things that can spoil your Sunday afternoon. One is a hangover, when your head is heavy and your joints are aching and all you want is meat with lots of chilli. Another is when the security guy tells you that someone rammed into your car at night, so you go to see and there is a drunk idiot who doesn’t even live in your apartment block who came to see a woman and reversed his car into yours. But the worst thing that can happen to you on a Sunday afternoon is to have a heart attack because your woman, without warning, asked you casually, “By the way, who is Jessica?” People use the phrase ‘by the way’ as an afterthought or in reference to something that is not awfully important. “By the way, where did you say you are going for Easter?” “By the way, did I tell you that kina John moved houses?” “By the way, nowadays the butcher guy doesn’t make mutura.” You know, casual and light conversation. But when a ‘by the way’ is appended to a female’s name, it is anything but casual. Actually, that’s a danger sign right there. There is never a right answer to this question because the exam had already been marked ages ago in your absence and you already have a re-sit. This is just formality; one of those things that the court’s stenographer needs to capture for their records. Please note that she chose to ask you this question when you are at your most vulnerable – when your feet are up on the coffee table, TV remote in hand. Maybe you even have a toothpick between your lips. Maybe you have been served a cold beer as hair of the dog, or pepe soup to kill the dregs of the previous night. You are a sitting duck. You are unprepared and ambushed. You are unarmed and blindsided. History is not even on your side. The most common reaction – one that we are all wired to blurt out – is, “Which Jessica?” This insinuates that you know many Jessicas and could she be more explicit with this particular Jessica to allow you to respond appropriately? DANGEROUS WOMEN If you are guilty of something, your feet will start sweating on the coffee table. If you are not guilty then she wouldn’t have asked that question and you would have enjoyed your soup or beer and your afternoon would have gone perfectly, followed by a brilliant Monday and quite possibly a productive week ahead. But the Universe is not that gracious. Not this Sunday. She will ask you, “How many Jessicas do you know?” in that sarcastic tone. You will emit what can’t pass as a laughter, because it is something ugly and sharp, like the sound a turtle makes when laying eggs. “Oh, Jessica, the one who makes curtains?” You will say. She will say, “Do you have another house that I need to know of?” It’s more than a rhetorical question; it’s a set up. The general rule of women is the same rule lawyers have during cross examination: Only ask questions you know the answers to. You will say that you don’t have another house. “So how come you speak to her all the time and meet her all the time? Are you suddenly in the curtains business and I don’t know?” You will stare at your feet and feel your brow moisten with perspiration. “Are you planning to surprise me with new curtains?” You will say no. (The only surprise is this conversation, you want to add.) “Are you interested in doing business buying and selling curtains?” You will keep quiet and hope that a fire starts and you have to evacuate, or that you get painful spasms in your spine that will make you pass out for two days, or better yet, if you could turn into a bird and fly out the window to Ngong Forest where nobody asks about Jessica or curtains. None of the above will happen. If you are lucky and blessed by the Lord, he will have given you a dramatic woman who will scream and make a stink and make you call Jessica right there and tell her that you will not be needing her curtains anymore. If you are unlucky, you will have a woman who will ask about Jessica and listen to your feeble answers, then not breathe a word of it again. She will just get up and go fold clothes or remove the nail polish from her feet. This one is a woman sent by the devil. You will be unsettled and riddled with guilt: “Why did you ask about Jessica?” and she will say, “Oh nothing, I was just wondering if you are doing business together.” She will be quiet and aloof but not unfriendly, which could mean that she is planning to kill you… or she is planning something far worse. I have ran out space here, but I guess what I’m trying to say is that a silent woman is the most dangerous woman. So ask yourselves, gentlemen, just how badly do you need this Jessica in your life?  