Lack of technical skills and on-the-job experience is a major problem in many countries. But it is felt most in the emerging economies that have to rely on expatriates to build capacity, spur economic growth and pioneer new sectors. Companies employing expatriate labour do not do so out of choice, but rather out of necessity, as it is an expensive option and often exposes them to criticism. A 2013 World Bank report titled 'The Job Challenge', showed that it has become difficult for many graduates to get jobs within their specific disciplines. RELEVANT SKILLS Surprisingly, it is not because there are too many graduates chasing too few jobs, but because many lack the skills and experience the job market requires. According to McKinsey (Social Initiative 2015), 40 per cent of employers report skills gaps in entry-level vacancies. This trend is exacerbated by technological advancements, which are rapidly replacing manual jobs, leaving millions of young people unprepared to participate in the 21st century knowledge economy. So how do employers and job-seekers fill this gap? Several remedies have been recommended. A method that has worked well for Kenya is the graduate trainee programme. TRAINING PROGRAMMES Firms take graduates through rigorous on-the-job training, after which they are either absorbed or let go to explore opportunities elsewhere. This model is used by international firms, including Procter and Gamble, PwC, and Deloitte. Graduate training programmes are a means for transferring skills and experience to new entrants and enable organisations to attract and identify talent. Securing technically talented and experienced workers in an emerging economy can be difficult, particularly in newly established areas such as the extractive sector. How have firms developed talent while saving on expatriate costs? A good example is Base Titanium, which has initiated various programmes to build capacity in the mining sector. INTERNSHIPSThe firm has three-month internships, 18-month graduate trainee programmes, apprenticeship programmes, community training and the frontline management programmes. The frontline programme identifies employees who can progress to higher level technical or management positions. Participants get training to gain some insight and experience in and beyond their respective disciplines. This gives them a more holistic understanding of the company’s operations, a key requirement for management. The apprentice and community trainee programmes represent practical initiatives that benefit the firm, youth, and local communities. The community technical training programme launched last December is designed to provide basic life and computer skills, emergency response knowledge, workshop practice, First Aid and occupational health and safety training. SELF-EMPLOYMENT Trainees specialise in hands-on training under two trades (electrical wiremen and arc welders). The trainees are later sponsored for the National Industrial Training Authority (NITA) Grade Test. Most of the current 15 trainees are Form Four leavers. Base Titanium, in partnership with Mombasa Industrial Training Centre (MITC), has provided an opportunity for the trainees to take classes and sit NITA exams. The trainees can also proceed to the diploma level. This equips them with core skills for the job market or self-employment. Base Titanium’s three-year apprentice diploma programme targets Form Four leavers admitted to technical training institutions. This is meant to provide on-the-job skills transfer. TRANSFORM ECONOMYThe apprentices also attend classes at the Technical University of Mombasa (TUM) to gain a recognised qualification. A lot still needs to be done to create innovative ways to provide skills to youth and ensure they are ready for the job market. Filling the skills gap will be costly and engaging. However, in partnership with the government through institutions such as NITA and the TUM, the private sector will impart skills for economic transformation. Prof Laila Abubakar is the acting Vice-Chancellor of the Technical University of Mombasa  