Do or die political contests are expected as ODM kicks off party primaries Thursday, with fierce competition for gubernatorial seats in at least eight counties. The nominations begin in Busia County, where incumbent Governor Sospeter Ojaamong is fighting for his survival against outgoing Funyula MP Paul Otuoma. Campaigns in Busia have been marred by violence as the two fight it out in a race focused on the governor’s performance for the past four years. Busia, Kisumu, Nairobi, Homa Bay, Siaya and Migori are marked political hotspots in these nominations, especially in areas perceived to be ODM zones. Already, the party has directly nominated 16 people, according to the list presented to the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC), after other aspirants failed to show up to challenge them in the nominations. FIELD CANDIDATES The 16 include governors James Ongwae (Kisii), Hassan Joho (Mombasa), Amason Kingi (Kilifi), Josephat Nanok (Turkana), Wycliffe Oparanya (Kakamega) and Evans Kidero (Nairobi). The party will field candidates in 26 out of the 47 counties in the coming elections. “We are prepared to ensure a credible exercise. We were ready to proceed from last week but had to change because the IEBC insisted we follow their timelines,” said ODM National Elections Board chairperson Judy Pareno. Ms Pareno said the party had made appropriate preparations for the primaries, though there were complaints from some quarters. “As the National Elections Board, we are determined to improve where we may have gone wrong in the past for the betterment of our party and the integrity of the process,” she said. The party will conduct its primaries over eight days in about 30 counties around the country for various positions, including county assembly seats. ANTICIPATED PRIMARIES “It is with this background that the National Elections Board wishes to announce that the much anticipated party primaries will officially kick off [Thursday] as earlier scheduled. The exercise will be held in Busia, Bungoma and Machakos counties on day one,” said Ms Pareno. A fierce duel is expected in Homa Bay County between Governor Cyprian Awiti and outgoing Kasipul MP Oyugi Magwanga. Former National Intelligence Service finance director Sammy Wakiaga, Nairobi-based logistics expert Enosh Bollo and Cosmas Kanyadudi are also eyeing the same seat. In Migori, incumbent Governor Okoth Obado is battling with former Cabinet minister Ochilo Ayacko. Others in the nomination race are Anne Anyanga and Paul Odola. In Siaya, Rarieda MP Nicholas Gumbo is mounting the biggest battle to oust incumbent Governor Cornel Rasanga, who is believed to be a close ally of nominated MP Oburu Oginga. BACKING GUMBO The race has split the Odinga family, with Gem MP Jakoyo Midiwo backing Mr Gumbo while Dr Oburu has stuck with the incumbent. The Kisumu race is expected to generate a spectacular contest, as it may be listed as a career-killer if outgoing Senator Anyang’ Nyong’o’s bid for the governorship fails or if incumbent Jack Ranguma’s fight to defend the seat fails. Hezron Mackobewa, Aomo Nyangara, Gordon Okumu and Christopher Ondiek are also in the race. READ: Primaries a members only affair Unlike in Kisii County, there is no free ride for incumbent Nyamira County Governor John Nyagarama. He and former assistant minister James Gesami are battling for the control of the devolution billions in the county. John Aboko is also pursuing the same seat. Nothing is free in Kwale either, with four aspirants - Isaah Athuman, Mohamed Mwarapayo, Sammy Ruwa and James Dena - seeking the governorship after Governor Salim Mvurya joined Jubilee. DEFEND SENATE SEAT Siaya Senator James Orengo, who previously indicated he would contest in the gubernatorial race, appears to have decided to defend his Senate seat. But there are two opponents seeking to halt his lengthy political career: Margaret Aketch and Clement Argwings Kodhek. In Kisumu, Nyando MP Fred Outa is fighting for the Senate seat with Israel Kodiaga, James Ogoda, Rose Omondi and Tom Ndalo. Interestingly, Mr Outa is also listed as a candidate for the Nyando parliamentary seat, the same as Stewart Madzayo, who appears to be running for both the Kilifi South parliamentary seat and the Kilifi County senatorial seat. TIGHT RACE In Homa Bay, Fred Rabongo, who is allied to Governor Cyprian Awiti, is fighting to oust Moses Kajwang’, elected to complete his late brother Moses Kajwang’s term in 2015. In Migori, there are 11 aspirants fighting to take over from Richard Machage, who decamped from ODM to DP a few months ago. Radio presenter Ben Oluoch Okelo, Dickson Ogola, Charles Ochieng, Michael Ogola, Eddy Gicheru, Ochieng Mbeo, John Magaiywa, Fred Ogolla, Solomon Rugaria, Maurice Obunga and Kennedy Oluoch are fighting it out for the ODM ticket. In Kakamega, the race is pitting Seth Panyako against Kenneth Kochwa and Justus Wabuyabo, while in Busia, Senator Amos Wako was given a direct ticket to defend his seat. The race is tighter for National Assembly seats, with between three and 10 aspirants competing in many constituencies. In Ugenya former Standard editor David Ohito is battling against five other candidates, including businessman Christopher Karan. UNSEAT KAJWANG Campaigns in Ruaraka in Nairobi have been bloody, with nominated Senator Elizabeth Ongoro fighting to unseat incumbent Tom Kajwang’. Mr Midiwo, who is defending his Gem seat, has four other candidates standing against him, including Elisha Odhiambo, Julius Okinda, Joseph Rading and Phebeans Weya. In Bondo, Dr Oginga wants to reclaim his seat, with the battle expected between him and incumbent Gideon Ochanda. Dr Oginga has dismissed claims he would be favoured over the other candidates due to his relationship with Mr Odinga. “I am investing everything in this race. I am competing with the others, the issue of direct ticket is nonsense,” he said. JOINED JUBILEE Former ombudsman Otiende Amolo is gunning for the vacant Rarieda seat after Mr Gumbo chose to contest the governorship. Incumbent Ken Mirenga is battling for his survival against seven other candidates, including businessman Richard Ogendo. In Kabondo Kasipul, Silvance Osele is facing opposition from seven people, including Eve Obara and former MP Paddy Ahenda, while in Karachuonyo 17 candidates are out to replace outgoing MP James Rege, who has decided not to contest after joining Jubilee. In Rongo, incumbent Dalmas Otieno Anyango is facing the stiffest competition ever, with his rival Paul Abuor and former University of Nairobi student leader David Osiany on his neck. ODM chairman John Mbadi is equally fighting for his political life in Suba, where former chief of staff in the defunct prime minister’s office Caroli Omondi is mounted a well-oiled campaign against him.   Dr Kidero said that all aspirants will have a fair shot at the party's ticket.