Columnist Njoki Chege’s report titled, ‘Cases of varsity killings rise as toll hits five in six months (Nation, April 6) focused on university students, although it also relates to their secondary school counterparts, who belong to the same age group. She described some horrific deaths of (mainly female) university students, and explained the crisis as one largely caused by peer pressure. The peer pressure theory was strengthened by expert voices mainly drawn from universities, all lamenting the changes that have left the student in the deep end of a tempestuous world. Yet, to understand the causes of the current malaise of irresponsible youth vulnerable to destructive lifestyles, we must go beyond singular explanations. A major cause is the breakdown of social institutions. Crime has soared, cases of religious and ethnic hatred are becoming rampant, and carefree life is now fashionable. In all, individualism and other forms of selfishness have become the new normal. Secondly, our obsession with political competition has distracted us from other aspects of our lives, including our social and cultural roles of guiding one another. SENSE OF HELPLESSNESS Thirdly, the marginalisation of youth in the running of our systems has engendered a general sense of helplessness and ‘uselessness’, thereby pushing them to deeper recesses of self-destructive behaviour. In the 1960s and 70s when the country was emerging from the clutches of colonial structures, the educated youth played a significant role in the civil service, corporate sector, politics, and the academia. Then, the general mood was of hope that the nation had something for everyone who had some education and ambition. This ensured that the youth of those days remained focused in pursuit of education and careers. Not so anymore. The youth of the 60s and 70s remain at the centre of our national political, economic, and corporate sectors, leaving little space for young Kenyans. GOOD LIFE The rampant joblessness means that it is only while in college that youth can live the illusions of a good life and freedom. And this should be the entry point in reversing the trend of youth vulnerability to self-destruction. While the government has provided for quotas that favour youth in tenders and nominations to various agencies, this initiative has two fundamental problems. One, the meaning of “youth” has often been stretched, with men and women in their 60s passing off as “youth”. Two, the initiative only addresses economic and political empowerment, not the social. While economic and social empowerment are important, it is only youth who are socially well adjusted who can meaningfully contribute to and benefit economically and politically. PEER PRESSURE So how do we resolve the challenge? Three steps can be helpful: One, we need to turn the tide of peer pressure into peer mentorship. This means using the positive aspects to influence others. Youth versatility with technology can be used to create virtual communities to which those in emotional or social turmoil can turn for help. Two, equip youth with greater values and personal ambitions that can defy peer pressure. In South Africa, the government initiated a successful “take-a-girl-to-work” initiative. During school holidays, women employees are encouraged to ‘adopt’ girls they take to real-work situations for a few days to learn skills and ethics, while deepening their career aspirations. This helps to prevent directionless drifting many by youth. Lastly, we must accept that we are faced with a society-wide rather than youth-only problem. If we look at ourselves in the mirror, perhaps we can identify areas that need sprucing up.  Ms Olembo is a public health consultant. themuserreflects@gmail.com  