Q. I work in a hospital and I am required to book patients for specialised services. The problem is I keep getting mixed instructions about how to go about this. This gets me really upset because I end up disappointing and delaying appointments for the patients. Dealing with this department is frustrating – sometimes the process is smooth sometimes it is not. How can I work around this? Achieving organisational goals requires team work and clear communication. In your case, you are dealing with sensitive medical issues, which must be handled with utmost care as they can put the reputation of the hospital at risk as well as endanger the lives of the patients. In this regard, to be a good professional, you should develop a calm demeanour and try to engage your colleagues positively so that you can improve your working relationship and quality of service to the patients. However, you must be cognisant to the fact that individuals have different levels of communication skills and therefore you will not always be able to understand or get all the information you need from everyone as required. You could consider having the steps for bookings done in writing to provide clarity. HOSPITAL OF CHOICE Refine the  methods of communication, this can be best achieved by developing a checklist from your end that can be shared with the department so that they can give you the information you require in an orderly manner to enable you make the correct bookings. The office should prepare process manuals that detail how various steps in your work should be undertaken. This becomes critical especially in your industry as it can help to hasten progress and avoid mistakes. Alternatively, you could advise the hospital to seek International Standards accreditation. The Accreditation Institution will help the hospital to develop procedures that are benchmarked against the best practices in your industry. Take note that patients are least concerned about your internal processes, their interest is getting served promptly and without mistakes whatsoever. The hospital needs to inculcate values that place the patients first and seek to foster good communication and team work among the employees to remain the hospital of choice. If this issue is not resolved, it could result into patients seeking these specialised services from the competition and therefore affect the hospital’s profitability which in turn could jeopardise your job and your colleagues’. You should not view this as a problem but instead take this as a challenge to improve the processes which will enhance your personal performance and the hospital’s overall delivery of service, and in turn endear more patients hence increasing profitability. They are paying for the services and should therefore be your focus to ensure they are satisfied with the quality of service. You should therefore play your part and avoid blaming others.  