Education Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i has appointed four new commissioners to the Commission for University Education following the coming into force of the Universities (Amendment) Act 2016. Ms Lucy Kambuni, Dr Elizabeth Muli have been re-appointed for a second term while Mr Nazeer Ladhani and Prof Anne Muigai will be serving their first term. “They will be members of the board for a period of three years with effect from April 12,” said Dr Matiang’i in Kenya gazette dated April 13. The previous team consisted of Ms Kambuni, Dr Muli, Mr Abudo Qonchoro Mamo, Paul Mungai (Ministry of Education) Alvin Njuguna (National Treasury) and Chief executive officer David Some as the secretary. The commission is expected to lead the search for a new Chief executive officer to replace Prof Some who will officially leave office on September 4. The deadline for submitting application was on April 7. “A person who was serving as a member of the Commission prior to the commencement of this section shall continue to serve as a member for the remainder of his or her unexpired term or for a period not exceeding 90 days after commencement of this section, whichever is earlier, after which new commissioners shall be appointed in accordance with this section,” states the Act. It was assented to by President Uhuru Kenyatta in December last year. This means that Prof Chacha Nyaigoti Chacha who was appointed in November to replace embattled chairman Prof Henry Thairu will have to be re-appointed. Under the new Act, both private and public universities will now have representatives in the board. The chairperson will be appointed by the President, the Ministry of Education and National Treasury will have one representative each while one distinguished academic scholar with at least 10 years’ experience in management of university education will be appointed to serve in the commission. Federation of Kenya Employers Councils will also have a representative in the commission while the Commission Secretary will be an ex-officio member. At the same time, Dr Matiang’i has appointed five members to the board of Technical and vocational education and training authority. Those appointed are Dr Hazel Gathunga, Dr Ahmed Ferej, Mr Robert Muriuki, Ms Catherine Nyabala and Prof Faith Muli. They will serve in the board for a period of three years with effect from April 25.  