Defending champions Kabras Sugar and Kenya Harlequin have warned their opponents to prepare for bruising Kenya Cup semi-final battles on Saturday. Kabras Sugar and Quins advanced to semi-finals by the skin of their teeth on Saturday when they secured slim 21-18 and 32-31 victories against stubborn Resolution Impala and Mwamba sides at Impala and RFUEA ground respectively. Kabras Sugar, who are chasing their second consecutive title, will now meet Homeboyz at Jamhuri Park show grounds while Quins are up against Kenya Commercial Bank in the semi-finals next Saturday. Both Kabras Sugar and Quins lost to Homeboyz and KCB 34-22 and 29-26 respectively during the regular season. Homeboyz, who are chasing their maiden Kenya Cup title since their debt in the top flight league in 2013, have been in form this season, beating all the big wigs KCB, Quins, Resolution Impala, Kabras, Mwamba and Nakuru to top the league in the regular season for the first time. “I know Homeboyz are enjoying their best form ever, having won against all the top sides. They are a more organised and physical side,” said Kabras Sugar deputy coach Anthony Ogot. “It won’t be any easy game but we are ready for them.” WINNING STRATEGY “We have a week to plan, play and pray for good results,” said Ogot. This is Kabras Sugar’s third year in Kenya Cup, having made it to the final in 2013/2014 before winning the 2015/2016 title. Quins head coach Joel Ng’ang’a said they are ready to match KCB in all facets of play adding that they have learnt good lessons from their close loss to KCB in the regular season on March 18 and slim win against Mwamba. Quins, who have lifted the Kenya Cup eight times, have not won since 2012 while the four times champions KCB won last in 2015. “We led KCB by a margin of 13 points only to let them win but the players are now the wiser after we almost lost against Mwamba again,” said Ng’ang’a, who plans to unleash Kang’ethe brothers Joseph and James alongside returning Wilson K’Opondo in the forwards. “Our back three had a bad day in office against Mwamba but we shall work on that this week.” Mwamba fly-half George Mutuku, brilliant throughout the match, missed a crucial conversion and a penalty in the last five minutes to hand Quins victory.   Champions Kabras Sugar and Kenya Harlequin on Saturday reached the Kenya Cup semi-finals.