Q. Dear Mwikali, I have a problem with self-confidence. While doing presentations, or when I find myself in a crowd and are expected to speak, I lose my English. The grammar I need to express myself properly evaporates. How do I overcome this?  The best place to start to overcome any challenge is to understand the circumstances that trigger it. Yours is poor grammar, which becomes more evident when addressing a group of people, hence fear of public speaking. You therefore not only need to work on your grammar, but also on your presentation skills. Recall the old saying that practice makes perfect; this does not only apply in sports, but in many situations in life as well. Start by practicing your writing, ensuring that what you write has correct grammar, makes sense and has the right punctuation. Find a quiet place where you could read out loud, pronouncing every word correctly and pausing where you should. There are several apps and websites with free tutorials on this. Then form a habit of reading old newspapers, novels, textbooks, magazines, blogs – and as you read, note all difficult words, check their meaning and pronunciation and practice. Note your mistakes and correct yourself and get a good friend to listen as you practice and ask for feedback. You may also download podcasts that teach grammar, diction, presentation and communication skills and listen every time you have an opportunity. There are a number of training programmes offered by various experts that you could explore, including online tutorials and webinars. Before you beat yourself completely though, I am sure there is one language, whether your mother tongue or Kiswahili, that you are most fluent in, be proud of that. You do not have to speak English like its natives; all you need is to master it to communicate effectively in formal settings, including the workplace. It does not mean that if you have a trace of Kenyan accent in your English you are a failure, far from it. I know we make fun and see others as inferior when they fail to speak fluent English while we celebrate foreigners who speak Kiswahili with an accent. My advice is yes, make an effort to be clear in our official working language, but do not feel inferior if you are not perfect, just make sure you are understood.  