Police were called in to maintain peace at the St Monica Church polling station in Kitengela Ward after ODM ward rep hopefuls refused to take part in the nominations, citing irregularities in the ballot papers. The aspirants claimed that about 4,000 ballot papers allocated to the polling centre were missing. “This polling centre was supposed to have 12,000 ballot papers but now there are only 8,000,” said aspirant Peter Atara. “We are told that the papers have been taken to Imaroro Ward. Why take ballot papers marked with our names to another ward?” he said. The aspirants now fear that the ballot papers will be marked secretly in favour of one of them. By 11.30am restless voters were still gathered at the church compound, with the aspirants urging them to remain calm. SUSPICIOUS DELAY The aspirants first raised the alarm when ballot boxes and papers arrived late at the polling centre in a vehicle said to belong to a supporter of one of the aspirants. “When we questioned this, we were told that the vehicle that was transporting the voting materials had broken down and another one was called to save the situation - what is the coincidence that the only vehicle available [belongs to someone] allied to one of our opponents?” posed Philip Otendo, another aspirant. When the aspirants and officials got into the hall to sort out the issue, it was discovered that some ballot boxes and papers were missing. “All we are saying is that we cannot participate in a process that does appear to be fair,” said Mr Otendo. “We will only agree to hold the nominations after all the ballot papers that belong here are returned. The alternative is to have the nomination postponed until such a time when these issues will be resolved.” 'SENSED DEFEAT' The other aggrieved aspirants included Moses Saningo and Lydia Ngaira. They were joined by Bob Njagi, who is eyeing the Kajiado East constituency seat. They were all pointing an accusing finger at Paul Matuiya. For his part, Mr Matuiya claimed that the other aspirants were complaining because they had sensed defeat. “The ballot papers in question were taken to Imaroro Ward, which had insufficient ballot papers,” said Mr Matuiya. “Claims of rigging are unfounded.” But Mr Atara disputed the explanation, saying ODM headquarters should have supplied sufficient ballot papers for each polling centre. At some point, Daniel Osoi, the chairman of ODM in Kajiado County, arrived at the polling station and promised that fairness would be upheld in the nominations. “I will not allow an exercise that is not free and fair; we would rather cancel the whole process altogether,” said Mr Osoi.  