Ghanaian striker Gilbert Fiamenyo once again proved the saviour as AFC Leopards rallied from behind to hold leaders Posta Rangers 1-1 in a thrilling SportPesa Premier League match at a rain-soaked Afraha Stadium on Saturday. Joseph Nyaga opened the scoring for Posta in the 23rd minute before the Ghanaian equalised for Leopards 20 minutes to the final whistle. Posta Rangers were on top in the first half, with a flurry of chances in the Leopards box but failed to add onto their advantage. Posta midfielder Geoffrey Kataka sent a cross to Edwin Mwaura but with only goalkeeper Ian Otieno, who was facing his former employers, shot wide just eight minutes into the match. After a series of missed chances, Posta finally found the back of the net in the 23rd minute when Joseph Mbugi’s free kick was superbly converted by Nyaga. Veteran striker Dennis Mukaisi could have doubled their lead nine minutes to the break after outpacing his markers, but fired over the bar after sidestepping goalkeeper Ian Otieno. Leopards almost levelled matters four minutes to half time but Posta custodian Patrick Matasi did well to keep out Allan Kateregga’s thunderbolt for a fruitless corner. On resumption, Leopards took charge and moments after coach Stewart Hall brought in Paul Kiongera for Andrew Tololowa, the game took a new twist. This changed the attacking pattern as their anguished opponents found themselves on the back foot as they fought back to defend their slim lead. Leopards rested Samuel Ndungu for Marcus Abwao while Rangers introduced Gerald Obwoge for Edwin Mwaura. Kateregga thought he had grabbed the equaliser 11 minutes after the restart, but his effort was disallowed by referee George Mwai for a foul on Matasi. But if the Leopards opening goal was suspect, the second goal was a superb finish in the 70th minute. Kateregga made a dangerous run on the left wing and released a pass to Fiamenyo, who made no mistake. Rangers were reduced to 10 men in the 72nd minute when Joseph Mbugi was sent off for a second bookable offence. "We were strong in the first half and played an organised game but Leopards came back playing with vigour and a lot of energy and we succumbed under pressure and conceded a goal," said Posta coach Sammy "Pamzo" Omollo. Hall hailed his charges for recovering from a slow start to grab a point against the rock solid Posta side. "We were fantastic in the second half and I'm proud the boys did not disappoint,” said the Briton.   Tusker beat Muhoroni Youth 1-0 in a closely contested SportPesa Premier League match at Muhoroni Sports Ground on Saturday.