Practically everyone knows what hope feels like, that warm feeling of expectation or desire that something good will happen. Resonating with this are the words of the great ancient philosopher Aristotle; Hope is the dream of a waking man.But sometimes our feelings of hope are straddled with fear or uncertainty; will that something really happen or not? If it does happen, will it be to the expected standards or not? It is as if we are not sure that what we hope for will happen.This bilateral effect of life virtues has over history inspired great men and women to script lessons that help humanity to reflect and renew thoughts and feelings for the greater good.One such quote comes from Martin Luther King Jr when he says; we must accept finite disappointment but never lose infinite hope.In the language of the gospel, the word hope is not bilateral or uncertain; it is sure, unwavering, and active.That is the message of Easter and the epitome of an exhibition at the Nairobi National Museum. The exhibition, titled Hope: A Story of Courage and Sacrifice, is a celebration of the oldest Christian holiday that celebrates and commemorates the central event of the Christian faith: the resurrection of Jesus Christ three days after his death.The significance of hope during Easter celebration is the promise of eternal life through the atonement of Christ and the power of his resurrection.BEYOND FESTIVITIESThis fascinating story is told using a series of paintings by Evans Yegon and a collection of objects associated with Easter. Yegon, whose pseudonym is Yegonizer, has produced a set of 28 paintings that highlight Jesus Christ s courage and sacrifice in the momentous events leading to His death and resurrection.The first painting depicts the temptation of Jesus in the desert significant of Lent; the 40-day period of fasting and repentance that precedes Easter, while the first object is a palm branch, a symbol of peace and humility that marks Jesus triumphal entry into Jerusalem, atop a donkey, following His desert time.Working in acrylics on canvas, Yegonizer s narratives are enigmatic and intense. This could easily be attributed to the nature of the story being told but it is the remarkably contemporary abstract realism he applies that generates a compelling and daring effect.Working his backgrounds in seemingly random strokes, Yegonizer s riotous disorder is a really thrilling way of making a realistic artwork additionally abstract. Yegonizer, who had his first exhibition experience at the museum, is based at the Godown Arts Centre.The combination of Yegnoizer s dominant paintings with the solemn objects that include a Bible, a Chalice, Altar candlesticks, a crown of thorns and other objects of Christian reverence creates a contrasting atmosphere of outward freedom and inward reflection.Though the exhibition is about Easter, it is not intended to convert the museum gallery to a religious shrine but rather to celebrate the season of Easter and provide museum visitors with an insight on the origin of Easter and its relevance to Christians today.The anticipation and excitement of the Easter season that falls between March and April every year is electrifying for many people. Churches prepare elaborate Easter programs that illustrate the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ, and parents take time to colour Easter eggs and hide them so their children can hunt for them. It s typical for TV and print media to depict Easter as an enjoyable occasion of renewed happiness this time of year. But what does Easter deliver beyond the festivities? Hope: A Story of Courage and Sacrifice focuses on the principle of hope that extends into the eternities, and sustains us through the everyday challenges of life.AN EXHIBITION OF FIRSTSThe exhibition discusses the relevance of Easter today by looking at the values that come with hope, such as, endurance, truth, forgiveness and love, values that define a cohesive social community; values that can sustain humankind through cultural, socioeconomic and spiritual barriers such as poverty and inequality, racism, hunger, war and violence.The exhibition s curatorial approach applies a variety of interpretative methods. A major attraction is a five-minute audio visual projection of the scourging and crucifixion of Jesus Christ that evokes a tremendously moving and emotional experience. A performance skit by Cast Media, a group of young artists, conjures intrigue with a modern-day enactment of the historic events surrounding the empty tomb.The message behind the skit is that when we have hope, we trust God s promises; For everything that was written in the past was written to teach us, so that through the endurance taught in the Scriptures and the encouragement they provide we might have hope. (Romans 15:4).It is the first time that the museum has developed an exhibition on Easter. The exhibition is in the Creativity gallery of the Nairobi National Museum and will run from Easter through to the end of May. The length of time dedicated to the exhibition is symbolic to the 50-day Easter Season that stretches from Easter to Pentecost.An underlying intent of this exhibition is the message of peace ahead of Kenya s upcoming presidential elections. It is from peace and joy that hope emanates.Happy Easter! email print email print