Confidential details on the Nasa power-sharing deal sealed on Thursday afternoon have emerged days after the Opposition settled on ODM leader Raila Odinga as the presidential flag-bearer with his Wiper counterpart Kalonzo Musyoka as running mate. An agreement seen by the Sunday Nation shows that the five Nasa principals will not only share powerful Cabinet slots, if they form the next government, but will also have allocations in the legislature and the public service. The document lists the Cabinet slots that will be allocated to each of the main parties affiliated to the Opposition alliance. The other principals are Mr Musalia Mudavadi (ANC), Mr Moses Wetang’ula (Ford-Kenya) and Mr Isaac Ruto (CCM). “The objective of this agreement is to define the structure of government, share positions, roles and responsibilities and state how power shall be shared among the coalition parties,” the document states, adding that the principals shall “faithfully implement” the deal unless they agree on amendments in writing. ODM TAKES FINANCEAccording to the document, Mr Odinga’s ODM party has been allocated the powerful ministries of Finance, Defence and Education in addition to the presidency. The Wiper party led by Mr Musyoka has been allocated the deputy presidency, and the ministries of Foreign Affairs and the Transport docket. Mr Mudavadi’s ANC will occupy the powerful position of Premier Cabinet Secretary in charge of government coordination while his party will take the Interior ministry as well as Agriculture. It further indicates that apart from being one of the deputy Premier Cabinet Secretaries, Mr Wetang’ula will be responsible for the Economic Affairs sector coordination while his party will take the two Cabinet slots of Infrastructure and Energy. SENATE POSITIONSThe fifth principal in the Opposition coalition, Bomet Governor Ruto, will also be the deputy Premier Cabinet Secretary responsible for the Governance and Social sector while his CCM party has been assigned the ministries of Devolution and Health. Mr Musyoka’s party will also occupy one additional ministry from either Labour, Youth, Sport or East African Affairs while Mr Mudavadi’s ANC will also choose from the ministries of Trade, Mining, Environment, Tourism, Land, Water, Gender, Culture and Social Inclusion. Mr Wetang’ula and Mr Ruto will also choose one ministry from the cluster of Public Service, Economic Planning, Transport and Information. The five parties shall also share leadership positions in both the National Assembly and the Senate, including the senate majority leader, the senate deputy leader, senate whip, deputy whip, National Assembly majority leader, deputy leader, whip and deputy whip. Also to be shared between the five parties will be the candidates for the posts of the Speaker and deputy of both National Assembly and the Senate, the Nasa representatives on the Parliamentary Service Commission and the leadership positions of various committees of the two Houses. GENDER RULEThe agreement states that portfolios not allocated on the established criteria shall be allocated on electoral performance determined by the votes cast for each party as a percentage of the votes cast for the coalition candidates in all elections other than that of the president, and subject to a minimum of one and a maximum of five portfolios. The agreement further states that the coalition will ensure that no more than two-thirds of the Cabinet is of one gender and that each nominating coalition partner shall submit three resumes for each designated portfolio. “The Summit shall jointly evaluate and rank the candidates. A coalition partner may submit the same person for different portfolios. "Where the nominees do not secure the approval of the Summit the nominating coalition partner shall nominate alternative candidates,” the agreement states. RECRUITMENT PROCEDUREIt further states that the President in consultation with the coalition partners may reorganise the government including re-assignment and replacement of portfolio holders but in the event of a replacement, the nominating party shall pick the alternative candidates for replacement. The process of removal of a portfolio holder may be initiated by either the President or the party that nominated the said portfolio holder, the agreement states. The public service appointments that will also be shared out among the five Nasa affiliates include principal secretaries, heads and members of the boards of State corporations as well as diplomatic and other public service appointments. However, people nominated by the parties to hold public service positions will be subjected to the prescribed recruitment process. AFFIRMATIVE ACTIONUnder the agreement, each party will submit to the coalition a list of eligible and qualified candidates for consideration for appointment. “The lists will reflect the diversity of Kenya in terms of ethnicity, gender and inclusivity,” it states. Party nominees will become eligible for appointment if they are shortlisted through the established process, it further states. It, however, states that pursuit of affirmative action may override power-sharing consideration in appointments.  