This week I have played a few rounds of golf at Leisure Lodge Resort.I can safely say that playing the game is not as easy as the champions like Sergio Garcia, the winner of The Masters, made it look during the action in Augusta.The greens at Leisure Lodge are in excellent condition but my friends and I just seemed to find the bunkers. There are plenty of bunkers here. The fairways are also in even better shape but we spent more time in the roughs.Despite bringing back some poor scores, there were a few people who managed to play some excellent scores. Having been part of the tournament committee that organised the rounds of golf, I was glad to call out the winners who won the various prizes on offer. There were no complains. We were all happy campers.This was, however, not the case at an event that was held recently at Nakuru Golf Club. I have received several calls from members of Nakuru since Saturday seeking clarification on all sorts of issues.The main issues raised by the callers were around irregular handicap changes and the determination of the winner during a competition.All the callers however ignored the elephant in the room; the value of the main prize.The callers did not seem to think there was a problem with the value of the main prize, an all expenses paid trip to Rome. Such a prize I am certain would be of much higher value than the 500 (about Sh64,759) that is allowed by the Rules of Amateur Status. The holy waters from The Vatican would not wash away the venial sin committed by the winner of this prize. The Kenya Golf Union will definitely be interested in the details of this event.I will not go into the issues of Rules of Amateur Status as I have covered them in recent articles. It was, however, sad to hear of a player who manipulated their handicap upwards a few days to the competition. When this was not enough to win the prize, alternative facts were added to the conditions of play to deny the winner the prize. This is a practical example why the R&amp;A does not allow amateurs to win cash prizes or those worth more than 500. High value prizes have a way of making some golfers lie about their scores or even manipulate their handicap as was the case at Nakuru.Such prizes do not conform with the Rules of Amateur Status and should a golfer accept such a prize, they should lose their Amateur Status. The icing on the cake on this fiasco, was when the fellow who played the best round was denied the top prize for not being Catholic. There is no problem in having one s faith as a condition for eligibility for the competition but this had not been communicated.Conditions of play should ideally be communicated to all participants in a tournament. If not, they should be available for scrutiny for all who want to see them.Here are some of the things that competition committees need to think about when planning a golf tournament:1. Eligibility the committee must decide on who may participate in the competition i.e. men, women, juniors, seniors. Are there handicap restrictions? 2. Entry the committee must decide on how the players are going to enter the competition. Will it be on email or entry sheet?3. Format unless it is a competition that is traditionally played in a certain format, for example a weekly club night, the committee should not make assumptions that the golfers will know the correct format. The format must be published.4. Times of starting and groups under the Rules of Golf, it is the responsibility of the committee to establish the starting time and to arrange the groups in which the competitors play.5. Decision on ties the Rules of Golf require the committee to make a decision on how they will deal with ties. It is not necessary however to have a sole winner and ties can be accepted. The decision on how to deal with ties must not wait until there is one.6. Prizes the committee should announce the prizes to be awarded in the competition. The eligibility for the different prize categories should also be thought through in advance.You can tell a tree by the fruits that it bears. If you play golf at clubs where the competitions are not well organised, it will only be a matter of time before you start getting into trouble with the Rules. If the tree s fruits become sour, then it may be time to cut it down. It is time golfers stopped putting people who don t understand the Rules in leadership positions. email print email print