Q. I was recently sacked. My former employer cited gross misconduct, though he did not specify what I did or did not do. When I insisted on knowing my mistake, he argued that my contract said that he need not give reason for termination. Is this clause enforceable in court?  Every employee has a right to understand the reason they are being terminated. This is clearly stipulated in the employment Act, 2007. Your employer invoked the clause in your contract of employment to terminate you without assigning a reason. This was applicable before the employment Act was redrafted in 2007. Previously, an employer was not required to state the reason for termination as long as they paid the employee the stipulated notice or allowed them to serve notice. The Employment Act also introduced a section on unfair termination. The reason for introduction of the section is to ensure that there is fairness in termination, and this also acts as a guide before a decision to terminate is made. The Act now requires that an employee is notified in writing the intention to terminate their contract and given a chance to respond to the accusation in a formal disciplinary hearing. The employee is allowed to either be represented by the Chief Shop steward if they are members of a union. If not unionised they are allowed to invite into the meeting an employee of their choice to assist in defending the case or to clarify certain issues that may be of assistance to the employee. Where an employee is accused of gross misconduct, he is liable for a summary dismissal, and not eligible for any notice pay, however, one should be paid for the days worked. In this case my advice would be that you write an appeal letter to your employer citing unfair termination since you do not know why you were terminated and were not given a chance to defend yourself. If you are a member of the union, involve the external and internal union representatives and the labour office. If you are not a union member, involve the Labour office nearest closest to your former place of employment. They will arbitrate between the management and yourself to ensure a fair hearing and determination of your case.  