Chief Justice David Maraga has announced plans to set up permanent bases for the Court of Appeal in Nakuru or Eldoret towns. The CJ said that this will help decentralise services of the Judiciary and bring them closer to the people. He said consultations on the matter are going on. “We are considering setting up permanent bases for the Court of Appeal judges in the region but we are still consulting. We might set up the bases in either Nakuru or Eldoret towns,” noted the CJ. He spoke Thursday in Nyahururu Town when he met representatives of the Law Society of Kenya (LSK) Rift Valley chapter and members of the Nyahururu court users’ committee. NYANDARUA JUDGES The meeting sought to resolve a row on the location of two High Court judges recently posted to Nyandarua County. The two judges are being hosted at the Nyahururu Law Courts in Laikipia County, awaiting infrastructure to be put in place in Nyandarua. Justice Maraga, said the move was meant to help ease the burden of litigants and advocates who had been travelling to Nakuru in search of justice. However, the posting of the judges in Nyahururu caused an outcry from members of LSK from South Rift region. The LSK members wanted the two judges transferred to Engineer Law Courts, arguing that it is the central point. EXPENSIVE TRIPS According to Mr George Kimani who represented LSK members from Naivasha, the Nyahururu courts are in Laikipia County, making it difficult and expensive for residents in most parts of Nyandarua. “The move to have a High Court in Nyandarua County was good for us but our litigants have been complaining that they are experiencing difficulties in travelling all the way to Nyahururu to get justice. “Most of them, especially those from upper regions of Kinangop, are claiming that they spend at least two days to travel to Nyahururu,” argued Mr Kimani. He also claimed that there is insufficient working space for the two judges at the Nyahururu Law Courts. However, Justice Maraga ruled out the possibility of moving the two judges to Engineer Town. “I am seeking more time to have other judges recruited to serve residents of Nyandarua from Engineer Town. The two judges will serve from Nyahururu as we consider having new ones deployed to Engineer Town,” he said.  