In this interactive series, we invite our readers to send in questions to select public figures. Answers will be published in the next print and online editions. This week, IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati responds to your questions. What measures is the current commission taking to rectify the mistakes that were made by its predecessor in the 2013 polls? As the chairman, can you assure the country that IEBC is able to deliver free, fair and credible polls bearing in mind the operational, legal and bidder challenges the commission is currently facing? Andrew Maranga Ratemo, Malindi It is important for Kenyans to know that the IEBC is committed to improve our electoral processes. We must build on our gains. We now know that time is of essence in election management. Last time the commission was faced with constraints of time and indeed procurement challenges. Comparatively, this time round we shall have the technology in place much earlier than in 2013. We shall test the technology at least 60 days before the elections. Late changes to the electoral law demand that our team has to work 24 hours to ensure we comply. One can say it is a daunting assignment but, as commissioners and secretariat, we will meet the expectations of Kenyans. I recently learnt that I am double registered at the same polling station for reasons not known to me. I wanted to find out if the audit and verification exercise that IEBC is supposed to undertake will look at such double registrations and rectify or should I personally come to the IEBC offices to have the situation rectified? Peter Ambenje, Nairobi We published a list of voters who were appearing in our register more than once. The idea was not just to open up our processes but give an opportunity to voters like you to rectify the situation. READ: IEBC publishes list of counties with voter anomalies We are currently cleaning up the register to ensure that eligible voters only appear once with one ID marching the biometrics of the voter.   The audit process will also be used to ensure that we have a credible register before the elections. From May 10, the register shall also be open to the public for a period of 30 days. Kenyans should use that opportunity to confirm their registration status. How will you ensure that the August 8 General Election will be free and fair owing to the fact that the opposition Nasa is already making claims of rigging? Bonny Mutai, Londiani Our job is to do what the law requires in the interest of the public. We wish to assure all stakeholders that the commission is doing everything possible to give Kenyans a credible election. We invite all other stakeholders, including political parties, to do their part. My understanding has been that votes will be counted and the results announced at the polling stations. Why should they be relayed to Nairobi for you to declare and announce the winner? Alex Andabwa, Kakamega Indeed, results are counted and announced at polling stations. However, before we declare the winner of an election in accordance with the law, those results must be aggregated through the process we call collation. This has to happen at a central place we call the tallying centre where the returning officers shall add up results from all polling stations, then finally declare the winner of the election. During the second mass voter registration, an extra five days were added to the original timeframe. However, plans for compensation of the temporary staff were not communicated. For instance, in Maara, we were not paid. What plans are there to compensate these people? Boniface Muriuki It was unfortunate that the decision to extend mass voter registration happened just when we were closing the 30 days window. The commission had to obey the court order. We have started making payments for the extra five days and wish to assure the Maara assistants that they will receive their pay in due course. Sir, the Political Parties Act defines requirements for bona fide parties thereby creating a strong political framework for governance in Kenya and an open environment for Kenyans to exercise their constitutional right of association. What will IEBC do to ensure that only parties that fully meet the requirements of this Act participate in the electoral process? Sam Kibunja The Office of the Registrar of Political Parties indicates that we now have about 67 registered political parties. Our role as the IEBC is to ensure that parties comply with the electoral laws. For instance, do they carry out their party primaries in a free and fair manner? Do they respect the electoral code of conduct? Do they respect the rule of law? If they do not observe these tenets, which are key to our democracy, then the IEBC has no business allowing them to be in the election business. My good friend Prof Jegga, the former chairman of the Nigerian Electoral Commission, once said: “In a democracy, you cannot have political parties demanding a free and fair election from the commission, while they themselves do not even hold internal elections.” He ended up deregistering political parties that had not held their own internal elections for a while. That is the spirit that we want to demonstrate in Kenya. After auditing the voters register, will IEBC publish the anomalies, including details such as names that may have been removed, where from and the final position as a sign of good faith and transparency? David Okello, Kisumu   Definitely. We want to have a transparent audit process. We shall publish the findings and also implement action that will ensure we have a credible register before the elections. I consider it an illegality for your commission to demand from aspirants clearance by HELB, Credit Reference Bureau, DCI, ODPP, KRA and EACC among others while Articles 24 and 99 of the Constitution clearly state how one qualifies to run or gets disqualified from running for an elective political office. Don’t you think the requirements negate the doctrine of innocence till proven otherwise? Ichenga Mugao, Tharaka Nithi The commission is only enforcing the requirements of the Leadership and Integrity Act as passed by Parliament. By demanding this information, it does not mean that the commission seeks to condemn contestants. No. We just want to ensure that the law is followed in clearing aspirants. Mr Chairman, could you please take us through the process of removing names of those who have died from the register of voters? Githuku Mungai A good question. We receive the information from Office of the Registrar of Births and Deaths from across the country. Most of the information is decentralised and our field officers have to find ways of getting the data from these offices. Once we receive the information, we proceed to deactivate the name of that voter from the BVR database. The challenge we have now is getting reliable data on dead voters from the field. During the one month long verification, our officers will be working closely with the Registrar of Births and Deaths to mop up data on dead persons from across the villages. That information will be used during the register clean-up exercise. In the event that we fail to eliminate dead voters from the register, the biometric verification of voters on the election day shall not allow any “dead” voters to vote. That is a big plus for technology! Transparency, which the Constitution demands, has been seriously lacking in our elections; and it contributes to outcomes being frequently disputed. How do you guarantee that election results will be verifiable by voters nationwide from the polling station level? Mwaniki Nyaga, Embu We have made efforts to explain to stakeholders what is required in results management. And we shall continue to do so. We have a results management framework in place that defines the process of election results. We invite you to look at it. Further, we are employing technology that is secure with in-built features that guarantee transparency, auditability and verifiability of election results. We shall have a form that will ensure all ballot papers issued to a presiding officer are accountable for at the end of voting. Lastly, all the results forms from polling stations shall be available online to allow public access. Software systems security has become a socio-economic concern worldwide thanks to hacking and cracking. What steps have you taken toward securing the commission’s hardware and software systems? John M. Muathe, Tala This is a very important issue. We are always aware of the value of our ICT infrastructure in terms of interest from external actors. We have acquired new systems with enhanced security features. We also have internal capacity to track system vulnerability. But most importantly, our data is backed-up to ensure that we have a fallback in the event of system interference.   There have been allegations that some two million people voted only for the presidential candidate in the 2013 election and not the other five seats. Is that practically possible and what assurance will you give to Kenyans that this time round, something similar will not happen? Hussein Mohamed, Isiolo I have looked at the data for the 2013 General Election and I am yet to establish the veracity of the allegations. What are the merits and demerits of being an independent candidate? Francis Njuguna, Kibichoi Well, this is an interesting question. Our role as the commission is to manage elections between party contestants as well as independent candidates. It is not in our purview to advise on merits and demerits of independent candidates. But let me say that independent candidates are treated differently when it comes to nominations. They are not constrained by political party rules. However, they must also observe procedures laid out in the Elections Act when processing their candidature. Tiaty and Baringo South constituencies have been gazetted as security zones and therefore limited civilian activities are allowed. How will your commission conduct election preparations in these areas to ensure that the voters are not disenfranchised in their quest to elect leaders who can salvage them from the current situation? Komen Moris, Eldoret The law gives the commission the option to postpone elections in a place if, in its own estimation, the security situation may not allow the holding of free and fair elections. It is, therefore, important that citizens learn to live together in harmony and for the state to take measures that guarantee a peaceful environment for elections to be held. Sir, your commission has hardly settled and, judging by the reactions of the political class, they seem not to trust that your commission can deliver credible elections. What could be informing these moves and what assurances can you give them? Komen Moris, Eldoret As a referee, it is never easy. Your duty is to abide by the rule of law. Political actors contest elections, ours is to ensure the game is fair. If we have that common understanding across the board, then we should have no issue at all. What is your take on Opposition’s plan to have parallel tallying and what impact could this have? Is there part of the Constitution that stops political parties and candidates from parallel tallying of votes? Peter Muthuuri, Tharaka Nithi The commission has clarified this issue to the public and I am glad that our meeting with the Opposition was fruitful. It is only the commission that is mandated to count, tally, announce and declare election results. However, political parties may monitor, tally and verify the results of an election but cannot declare the outcome. The commission is not opposed to setting up facilities by political parties and the media to monitor the results. The new results management system is going to make things much easier for the commission, political parties, media and observers. For more questions and answers go to www.nation.co.ke   Police also accuse Ronnie Nsale of working with the Islamic State group.