Kariobangi Sharks defender Paschal Ogweno will be sanctioned by the Independent Disciplinary Committee for violent misconduct during his team's 1-0 defeat to SportPesa Premier League leaders Posta Rangers on Saturday at Afraha Stadium, Nakuru County.Ogweno was red carded in the 38th minute after denying Posta a goal by deliberately handling the ball from the goal line. The player aroused a bad temper affair between his teammates and the centre referee Moses Simiyu in the end snatching the card and throwing it away. He was forced off the vicinity of the field of play albeit unwillingly by the Kenyan Premier League (KPL) Chief of Technical Services, Safety and Security GMT Ottieno. His teammate Michael Bodo attempted to pick up the card and return to the referee in vain.Simiyu was given a new card by fourth official Duncan Ogosi, he tore the card and was sluggish to get off the pitch. He has been a nuisance in the second tier unfortunately he has extended the same thing in the top flight. As referees we are eagerly waiting to see what action both the federation and KPL will take, one of the referees anonymously told Nation Sport.His coach, William Muluya admitted after the game that it was uncalled for by the player. I am yet to see what transpired exactly whether it was a penalty or not and if the player deserved a red card. That said, what happened after being carded was uncalled for from him. It s unfortunate, we shall look into the matter at club level, noted Muluya.Ottieno has already insinuated that the player won t be spared and could follow Mathare United tactician Francis Kimanzi and Gor Mahia s Fitness trainer Sandro Fantoni, who were recently handed one month and three match bans for various offences. We are going to look at the report and sanction the player. Fortunately I was on the ground and escorted the player off the field of play. We consider such an incident as violent conduct and it s going to be filed with IDCC. When he went to the dressing room, someone who knows him told me it has been his character and it s unfortunate that he has carried on the same in the premier league. It s bad for him this time round he is in hot soup. It s shocking that he is from Kariobangi Sharks, a team I believe is always watched by the national team coach (Stanley Okumbi) whenever he is not engaged. This is something that they should know that protesting against a referee s decision is illegal. The club will be communicated to on the case once we compile the report and send it to IDCC, concluded Ottieno. email print email print