The media fraternity is mourning the death of Nyeri-based journalist Job Weru, who was working with the Standard Group. Mr Weru, 36, passed on while receiving treatment at Ladnan Hospital in Nairobi on Monday morning. He was taken ill shortly after arriving from a work-related trip in Israel last week and had been admitted to Avenue Hospital in Nairobi’ Parklands. His condition initially improved but it worsened three days ago, when he was moved to the high dependency unit (HDU). Doctors at the hospital recommended that he be placed under intensive care. Mr Weru later developed breathing complications and died while in the ICU. The father of two joined the Standard Group in 2003, working as a correspondent in the Laikipia and Nyeri regions. He was well known for his understanding of religion and is remembered for his coverage of the beatification of Blessed Irene Stefani Nyaatha and the Pope Francis's historic visit to Kenya. EULOGISED Standard Group's Central Region Editor Francis Ngige eulogised Mr Weru as a dedicated journalist and a close friend. "I don't remember the last time I felt this low and devastated. I have lost a dedicated colleague and a friend," Mr Ngige wrote on his Facebook page.   Those who worked with him closely for many years also shared their messages of condolence. “Job was the most jovial and respectful people I ever worked with. He was more of a brother than a colleague. These are hard times for the media family and we deeply condole with his family and friends,” said Eliud Waithaka, another journalist. His colleagues remembered him for his jovial character and boldness in reporting on matters of injustices against marginalised communities in Laikipia County. PHOTOGRAPHER He has also been celebrated for his photography skills by his colleagues. “You [have] never seen a fellow so jolly, so full of life, so pure of heart, so full of adventure, so helpful, so full of charm. May peace that surpasses human understanding be with your loved ones,” KTN reporter Carol Nderi wrote on her Facebook page. Mr Weru hailed from Mureru in Laikipia County and is survived by his wife Anne Muringo and two daughters, Esther and Mary. We at the Nation Media Group wish to convey our heartfelt condolences to the Standard Group family. May he rest in peace.  