Political parties begin nominations this week with the major ones staring at a logistical nightmare in the make-or-break exercise that will determine their performance at the General Election. But the parties must first meet the Wednesday deadline set by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) to submit names of aspirants who will take part in the nominations. Their leaders have spent the last couple of days trying to avert fallouts associated with the primaries in what has seen some gubernatorial aspirants like Ananiah Mwaboza in Mombasa shelf his ambitions and instead agree to be Mr Suleiman Shahbal’s running mate on the Jubilee ticket. Nominations have occasioned voter-apathy in past elections, especially where popular candidates were rigged out. However, there is consensus across the divide that no party has the capacity to conduct water-tight nominations. LEADING THE PACK The Orange party will lead the pack, with its first batch of counties holding their primaries on Friday. They include Bungoma, Machakos and Busia. Jubilee’s big day, on the other hand, is April 21 as it chooses the people it will present at the ballot. By choosing to do it all in one day, Jubilee is taking a huge gamble. The advantage is that the party will have ample time to address appeals, but the exercise could also get out of hand if not managed well, given the massive resources needed. President Uhuru Kenyatta, who is the Jubilee Party leader, Opposition chief Raila Odinga (ODM) and Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka are facing a tough balancing act with their loyal lieutenants squaring it out for different positions. The stakes are even higher with the realisation that clinching party tickets in different strongholds is as good as an election win. Jubilee and ODM have said they will reshuffle their returning officers to avoid cases of bias, with Mr Odinga’s party staggering its nomination dates to ensure it is not too overstretched. “By staggering our elections, we will have sufficient time to repeat them even three times if that is what it takes to deliver credible primaries,” said Ms Judy Pareno, the ODM National Elections Board chairperson. MERGED POLLING STATIONS Wiper, Ford Kenya and Amani National Congress (ANC) have adopted a similar approach. ODM has also merged polling stations used by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission to have fewer, manageable units. “We have consciously decided to move our County Elections Board to man nominations far from their counties of origin. And we will not tell aspirants about these changes in advance,” Mr Raphael Tuju, the Jubilee Party Secretary-General said. READ: Agency moves to rectify irregularities in party membership fiasco Ms Pareno also said ODM would swap its returning officers a day to the nominations scheduled for between April 7 and April 21. “We will swap our returning officers to avoid bribery by aspirants,” said Ms Pareno. Ms Grace Katasi, the chair of Ford Kenya National Elections Board, which will hold its nominations between April 13 and 26 in eight different days, said the party was ready for the challenge. “Right now, we are going to different places to tell our aspirants how we have merged the polling stations and who and how the party members will vote. We will not block anyone as long as they have a membership card and a national identity card,” said Ms Katasi. JOINT NOMINATIONS Among places where Nasa — which comprises ODM, ANC, Wiper and Ford-Kenya — plans joint nominations, the Nation learnt, are Nairobi, Mombasa, Nakuru and Garissa — regions classified as battle grounds. In counties perceived as Nasa strongholds such as Kakamega, Bungoma and Kitui, modalities are being worked out to allow affiliate parties field candidates who will battle it out in the main election. ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi stated that the coalition was considering holding joint nominations in Nairobi, Mombasa and Nakuru. “In green zones where Nasa is dominant, every party will have a candidate. In other areas where our support is not as strong, we will have to make strategic decisions and work on an agreeable approach,” he said. He defended the decision by ANC to hold nominations in Nairobi, saying that Nasa will have a joint candidate for the governor’s seat. So far, incumbent Evans Kidero is the only candidate from Nasa affiliates who has expressed interest in the seat, giving him a clear head-start in the opposition coalition. After closure of the primaries on April 26, parties will have until May 19 to resolve disputes that may arise before presenting the names of nomination winners to the IEBC a week later. Due to intense pressure, some politicians have either formed own parties or joined new ones where they are assured of direct tickets and a date with destiny on August 8. Governors Peter Munya (Meru), Isaac Ruto (Bomet) and Machakos counterpart Alfred Mutua have the Party of National Unity (PNU), Chama Cha Mashinani (CCM), and Maendeleo Chap Chap after bolting out of their 2013 election parties. And 2013 presidential candidate Martha Karua is sticking to her Narc-Kenya party. LOWERING NOMINATION FEES Smaller parties have also made a killing from the all-important nominations, lowering their nomination fees and assuring defectors from big parties of direct tickets. Powerful names in Jubilee and Nasa are facing each other for nomination tickets. In Nyeri, Governor Samuel Wamaathai is facing Senator Mutahi Kagwe and a host of first-timers. In neighbouring Kirinyaga, former powerful Devolution Cabinet Secretary Anne Waiguru is facing Governor Joseph Ndathi. The winner will face Narc Kenya’s Martha Karua at the ballot. This is one county in the Jubilee stronghold where the Jubilee candidate will not rest easy until Election Day. In Murang’a, Governor Mwangi wa Iria is engaged in what appears to be do-or-die battle between him and Kigumo MP Jamleck Kamau. In Nyandarua, former powerful civil servant Francis Kimemia is seeking to dethrone incumbent Governor Daniel Waithaka Mwangi. The fear within Nasa is that it could lose its perceived Mombasa stronghold to Jubilee Party if it fields more than one candidate. In the county, ODM deputy leader Ali Hassan Joho is locked in a fierce battle with Wiper Secretary-General Hassan Omar for the governor’s seat, raising the risk of splitting the Nasa vote in the main election. In Kakamega County, Ford Kenya deputy leader Boni Khalwale is facing a tough battle to unseat incumbent governor Wycliffe Oparanya of ODM. In Garissa, ODM’s Nassir Dolal and Wiper’s Farah Maalim are both gunning for the Garissa Town parliamentary seat, at the risk of splitting the Nasa vote and handing Jubilee’s Aden Duale an easy victory. FACING OPPOSITION And in Kitui, governor Julius Malombe is facing opposition from senator David Musila and former cabinet secretary Charity Ngilu, whose Narc Party has also joined Nasa. Dr Khalwale, in a separate interview, confirmed that Nasa would field a joint candidate in Nairobi. “Our position as Ford Kenya is that we will subject our presidential candidate to the joint nominations within Nasa but we will field candidates in all other elective positions across the country, save for Nairobi. In Nairobi, we shall negotiate (with other Nasa affiliates) on how to field candidates for all elective positions,” said the Ford Kenya deputy party leader. In Bungoma, Ford Kenya’s Wycliffe Wangamati is expected to battle it out with ODM’s Alfred Khang’ati for the governor’s seat. In Vihiga County, ANC’s Yusuf Chanzu is set to lock horns with ODM’s Wilbur Ottichilo and incumbent Moses Akaranga, who is also leaning towards Nasa.   President Kenyatta's party has minted over Sh140 million from the sale of membership cards so far.