Kirinyaga Governor Joseph Ndathi and his challenger Anne Waiguru clashed ahead of the Jubilee nominations in the county scheduled for tomorrow.This came as security was beefed up in the county and police commissioners expected to oversee the Jubilee Party nominations. According to Central Regional police boss Larry Kieng , the two commissioners will be posted in Mwea and senior officers from all police units will be on ground command.CLEAN CONTEST Political temperatures on the other hand rose as Mr Ndathi accused Ms Waiguru and Woman Rep aspirant Wangui Ngirichi of trying to manipulate the nominations and threatened not to go on with the primaries if it is not fair. The governor insisted that Ms Waiguru was planning to buy votes and vowed to resist any attempt to rig the polls. Should I read any signs of rigging, my supporters and I will not participate. There is no way I can rubber stamp rigged nominations. Jubilee should ensure that the exercise is credible, he said. Mr Ndathi, Ms Waiguru and Kirinyaga Central MP Gachoki Gitari, who are fighting for the gubernatorial seat ticket, said they were ready for the race.Other aspirants include former KRA boss Eliud Wanjau. SUPPORTMs Waiguru on Sunday said Mr Ndathi was panicking after sensing defeat.The former Devolution CS said she had done enough campaigns and was not worried about who will be the presiding officer in the exercise. I have the support of the voters and I do not care who will preside over the exercise, she said. But in a quick rejoinder, Mr Ndathi said that he was not afraid and accused Ms Waiguru of peddling falsehoods.The two aspirants traded accusations each claiming to be having overwhelming support.On his part, Mr Gitari said he was counting losses following the failed nominations but vowed not to give up. I have reorganised my agents and come up with a new strategy to mobilise voters. I m optimistic that I shall triumph and become the Jubilee flag bearer, he said.WINNING STRATEGY Over the weekend, the aspirants were busy holding series of meetings to come up with a winning formula.They met their campaign coordinators and agents in Kutus, Kerugoya, Sagana and Makutano towns and discussed at length how the voters will be mobilised.At the weekends, hotels were busy as the aspirants addressed their key strategists. email print email print