Legendary long distance runner Paul Tergat will go into the National Olympic Committee of Kenya elections on May 5 as the sole candidate for the presidency after incumbent Kipchoge Keino failed to return his nomination papers. Tergat was unopposed as the Centre for Multiparty Democracy (CMD) secretary Irene Tindi released the names of candidates vying for various posts on Wednesday. Also expected to sail through unopposed are athletes representatives Hellen Obiri (female) and Kenya Sevens legend Humphrey Kayange (male).Nock s first and second deputy presidents Ben Ekumbo and Pius Ochieng will not defend their seats.However, Tindi could not confirm whether they were among those who failed to return the nominations or were knocked out owing to technicalities.Tindi indicated that 33 candidates collected nomination papers for various seats from which two failed to return while one nomination was rejected.Tindi said 15 federations and three individuals, IOC member Paul Tergat, female athlete representative Tegla Loroupe and women representative Paurvi Rawal have been cleared to vote during the elections.The Kenya Badminton Association, Kenya Cycling Federation, Kenya Tae Kwondo Association and Kenya Weightlifting Federation are still being verified before being cleared.Tergat welcomed Kipchoge s decision to step aside saying he is a great statesmanship . I am delighted by Kipchoge s move and for sure he is leaving an unparalleled mark. We shall engage him for advice, said Tergat, who reiterated his position for an all-inclusive leadership at Nock. I thank God for this opportunity as I prepare to serve the country s sports sector at the highest level. BACK CANDIDATESTergat said he will still back candidates from the line-up he unveiled during his official launch a month ago. I want all of them to sail through, but again, this is a democratic process and I am ready to work with anybody who will be elected, Tergat said. My team will be there to serve all the sportsmen and women of this great nation without fear or favour. With Ekumbo not defending his seat as first deputy president, the floor is now open for Kenya Judo Association (KJA) president Shadrack Maluki and his Kenya Hockey Union counterpart Nahashon Randiek to battle.Athletics Kenya president Jackson Tuwei and Kenya Volleyball Federation chairman Waithaka Kioni will be seeking to replace Ochieng. Nock secretary general Francis Paul, who is the Kenya Handball Federation chairman, will defend his seat in a race that has Kenya Table Tennis Association (KTTA) president Andrew Mudibo and Kenya Rugby Union (KRU) director John Kilonzo.John Ogolla (Weightlifting), Francis Mutuku (Tennis Kenya) and Timothy Mabea (Football Kenya federation) will be out to unseat Nock deputy secretary general James Chacha.Elina Shiveka from Kenya Hockey Union, Ann Njambi (Kenya Badminton) and Eliud Kariuki (Wrestling) will contest for the treasurer s post that has been left vacant by Frida Shiroya, who opted out. email print email print