Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero was on Wednesday put on the spot for failing to account for revenue collections worth more than Sh10 billion. Only Sh1 billion out of the Sh11 billion of the county revenue was deposited in the County Revenue Fund account, according to the Senate County Public Accounts and Investment Committee. This, according to the auditor-general’s report, is against public finance management regulations, as the funds are supposed to be banked in the account, which is under the watch of the Central Bank. On Wednesday, the governor took issue with the Senate’s interest in the county’s local revenue, saying auditing the funds was the preserve of Members of the County Assembly. “In terms of jurisdiction, it is the county assemblies that have jurisdiction over locally generated revenue. It has queried and a report has been done. We will present the report,” Dr Kidero told the committee at Parliamentary buildings. DISMISSED ASSERTION But, the senators dismissed the governor’s assertion, saying the Senate as the custodian of county interests has a role on how funds generated in the devolved units are utilised. “Don’t think the hands of the Senate are tied when it comes to a county’s own revenue. If so, why is this matter before the Senate committee?” Senator Paul Njoroge (Nominated) asked. Senators John Lonyangapuo (West Pokot), Kimani Wamatangi (Kiambu) and Liza Chelule (Nominated) said the committee was seeking evidence on how the funds were used, to clear the audit query. “We want to see evidence for paying for goods and services at source. We want documentation to show the debts inherited from the defunct local authorities or court orders and minutes for council meetings that authorised the payments,” Prof Lonyangapuo said. The auditor’s report indicated that the county had a weak internal control system on revenue collection and accountability. OPERATING BELOW PAR An online payment platform called Jambopay, that allowed users to make payments through mobile phones over the internet was also found to be operating below par. A review of the county records revealed that the system did not reconcile the amount paid by the users of the platform, the amounts banked and the revenue recorded by the county government. In addition, the virtual funds are held in a trust account by a third party, who is not contracted by the county government, creating a risk of misappropriation. The committee also demanded to know why the county government took a loan of Sh 298 million without approval from the County Assembly, as required by law. In response, the county government said funds from the Exchequer had delayed and they had to meet the cost of insurance cover. The governor said the county was struggling to meet its financial obligations because the national government had failed to pay debts amounting to Sh11 billion owed to the devolved unit by various ministries.  