The Universities regional drama festival for Nairobi ended on Saturday at the Kenyatta, with participating teams exhibiting high standards. Focus now shifts to the national drama festival set for Kisumu starting next Saturday. Teams that impressed during the Nairobi edition and are likely to compete favourably in the national drama festival include Nairobi University with its well scripted play “Beggars” authored by Dr Simon Peter Otieno and which sent the audience in fits of laughter. It is a play about two beggars but with totally different ambitions, one hoping to be a wealthy city dweller one day while the other insisting to remain on the streets if only to embarrass her rich mother. It so happens that one day, the rich mother to the female beggar, Sandra, appears on the streets in search of a witchdoctor, only to realise that the only street boy around is Mang’aa, her biological son and brother to Sandra. The mother gets embarrassed that despite all her corruptly gotten wealth, her children Mang’aa and Sandra are living off the streets. STUDY MEDICINE Another play worth looking out during the Kisumu festivals is “Crucifixion’’ performed by the Multi Media University. It was scripted and directed by Justine Ong’wen and produced by Prof. Festus Kaberia. It has been four years since Imelda went to the Arabica Republic of Wadinah on a scholarship to study medicine. Her benefactors at the orphanage where she grew up have all travelled to Wadinah to attend her graduation, only to meet her on the Crucifixion Gibbet being executed for the murder of the Supreme leader of Wadinah. What unfolds next is a thought- provoking plot that lays bare the overlooked tale of campus students who date men old enough to be their fathers for financial gains while ignoring their studies. Mount Kenya University’s Nairobi campus whose play “massacre in the valley” emerged second best overall captures the ongoing ethnic skirmishes in Baringo county. The cast’s stars are Vincent Mbithi  as Mr Andrew, an egotistic and ruthless private developer and Pamela who is fighting voice in the village. It is a war without weapons, written by Peter Onyancha and Leonard Okuku and directed by Michael Nyangau. Technical University of Kenya’s play ‘’Bad Blood’’ which finished third is a symbolic representation of radicalisation by use of cannabis.   Top performers aim for a slot in national contest as regions hold drama festivals.