New York Times The research is clear: when we choose humble, unassuming people as our leaders, the world around us becomes a better place. Humble leaders improve the performance of a company in the long run because they create more collaborative environments. They have a balanced view of themselves and a strong appreciation of others’ strengths and contributions, while being open to new ideas and feedback. They help their believers build their self-esteem, go beyond their expectations and create a community that channels individual efforts into an organised group that works for the good of the collective. For example, one study examined 105 small-to-medium-sized companies in the computer industry in the US. The findings revealed that when a humble CEO is at the helm of a firm, its top management team is more likely to collaborate and share information, making the most of the firm’s talent. Another study showed that a leader’s humility can be contagious. When leaders behave humbly, followers emulate their modest attitude and behaviour. A study of 161 teams found that employees following humble leaders were themselves more likely to admit their mistakes and limitations, share the spotlight with others and be open to new ideas, advice and feedback. Yet instead of following the lead of these unsung heroes, we appear hardwired to search for superheroes: over-glorifying leaders who exude charisma. Research on charismatic leadership reveals that charismatic people are more likely to become endorsed as leaders because of their high energy, unconventional behaviour and heroic deeds. While charisma is conductive to orchestrating positive large-scale transformations, there can be a “dark side” to charismatic leadership. A clinical study illustrates that when charisma overlaps with narcissism, leaders tend to abuse their power and take advantage of their followers. Another study indicates that narcissistic leaders tend to present a bold vision of the future, and this makes them more charismatic in the eyes of others. Why are such leaders more likely to rise to the top? One study suggests that despite being perceived as arrogant, narcissistic individuals radiate “an image of a prototypically effective leader.” Narcissistic leaders know how to draw attention toward themselves. They enjoy the visibility. It takes time for people to see that these early signals of competence are not later realised, and that a leader’s narcissism reduces the exchange of information among team members and often negatively affects group performance. It’s not that charismatic and narcissistic people can’t ever make good leaders. In some circumstances, they can. For example, one study found that narcissistic CEOs “favour bold actions that attract attention, resulting in big wins or big losses.” The problem is that we select negative charismatic leaders much more frequently than in the limited situations where the risk they represent might pay off. Despite their grandiose view of themselves, low empathy, dominant orientation toward others and strong sense of entitlement, their charisma proves irresistible. Followers of superheroes are enthralled by their showmanship: through their sheer magnetism, narcissistic leaders transform their environments into a competitive game in which their followers also become more self-centred, giving rise to organisational narcissism, as one study shows. If humble leaders are more effective than narcissistic leaders, why do we so often choose narcissistic individuals to lead us? The “romance of leadership” hypothesis suggests that we generally have a biased tendency to understand social events in terms of leadership and people tend to romanticise the figure of the leader. My own research shows that our psychological states can also bias our perceptions of charismatic leaders. High levels of anxiety make us hungry for charisma. As a result, crises increase not only the search for charismatic leaders, but also our tendency to perceive charisma in the leaders we already follow. Economic and social crises thus become a unique testing ground for charismatic leaders. They create conditions of distress and uncertainty that appear to be ideal for the ascent of charismatic figures. Yet at the same time they also make us more vulnerable to choosing the wrong leader. Crises and other emotionally laden events increase our propensity to romanticise the grandiose view of narcissistic leaders. The paradox is that we might then choose to support the very leaders who are less likely to bring us success. In a time of crisis, it’s easy to be seduced by superheroes who could come and “rescue” us, but who possibly then plunge us into greater peril. While this might sound hopeless, there is another way of looking at it. Essentially, we have the leaders we deserve. As we collectively select and construct our leaders to satisfy our own needs and desires, we can choose humility or socialised charisma over narcissism.  