The just-ended annual schools’ drama festival in Kisumu showcased high levels of skills and performance. Drama, like other co-curricular activities, spices up learning, instils discipline, promotes teamwork and offers a chance for talent development. While in the early years, the festival was essentially an enclave of primary and secondary schools and time before independence, a preserve of the whites for their own entertainment, it has expanded in recent years to incorporate middle-level colleges and universities, demonstrating its wide appeal. NATIONAL GEM Genres on display have similarly increased to include films and soon may transcend to reality shows. In sum, it has become a carnival for the creatives. Basically, the fete underpins the fact that the country’s youth are bubbling with talent. In other jurisdictions, such talent is carefully nurtured and jealously protected because it is a national gem. Special academies exist, whose mandate is to tap into such talent and accord it the right environment and infrastructure to flourish. NEGATIVE ATTITUDES We are far from that, which is the crux of the matter. In the past, the government set out to establish talent academies to give sanctuary to such youngsters, but little has been done on that front. Few academies exist but they are hardly known. Although there are intentions to promote such outfits, negative attitudes still persist where the performing arts are mistakenly viewed as options for the less-intellectually endowed. We have said before and we revisit the fact that we must establish strong institutions for the talented and make them accessible to majority of the high school leavers. CURRICULUM REVIEW Like in other places, the government and universities should also set up bursaries for the talented. Fortunately, the education system is on the verge of a radical transformation, which mainstreams talent in the curriculum, with the realisation that it is germane to social, professional and economic growth. Time has come to institutionalise drama and other creative and performing arts to give talented young people a chance to nurture their skills and ensure that they eventually earn a living out of their capabilities.  