Shirleen Wangari, better known for her character as Shish in the long-running TV series Tahidi High, is happy behind the camera and running her production company.She decided to switch and go behind the camera and take up a role as a producer. Yes, like a lot of Kenyan actors and actresses, I do have my own little outfit called Blackwell Films Limited. We are young, slightly over a year old. We have produced a short film called Confessor which starred Nick Ndeda, Eddie Peter and Jay A, she told Buzz.The film revolves around a bar tender who records the confessions of his patrons in the club and was selected for Mashariki International Film Festival in Rwanda, Zimbabwe International Film Festival, Africa International Film Festival in Lagos, Afro Ananse Film Festival in Colombia, Get Indie Wise Film Festival in Miami, and Kenya s Riverwood Awards.Currently Wangari and her company are pre-producing a feature film comedy titled, Don t Panic under a campaign dubbed How film can make money in Kenya. She said the reason why they want to run this campaign is because Kenya is making many films per year but no money to show for their effort. We did a small survey whereby we asked people to name three films from Kenya, we got some interesting results. She adds; An industry cannot operate like that, where by the filmmakers give and give but never receive their return on investment, hence the campaign. The film is being directed by Gilbart Lukalia and partnering with Chris Cate Limited, Dixon Lights and Kiboi Kuria. I m also acting in a film by Roque pictures directed by another talented filmmaker Kevin Njue, she says.Wangari first burst on the scene on Citizen TV s Tahidi High as the bully Shish. After leaving the show, she had a role on MTV s Shuga, critically-acclaimed international film The First Grader based on the late Kimani Maruge s life, some Africa Magic-produced films, and Zuku produced series State House. email print email print Joho, Orengo and Nyong o whisked away by bodyguards after chaos starts. #ElectionsKE Last week, Justice Enoch Chacha Mwita dismissed a case challenging the tender award to KPMG.