ODM leader Raila Odinga has rallied Wajir County residents to vote out the Jubilee administration, saying it has neglected the Somali community. Speaking in Wajir stadium, Mr Odinga said that the President Uhuru Kenyatta government has failed to implement recommendations laid out in the Truth Justice and Reconciliation Commission (TJRC) report that cited historical injustices such as the Wagalla massacre, among others. Mr Odinga said that if the National Super Alliance wins the election in August, he will ensure the report is implemented and the victims compensated. "Jubilee government has refused to implement the TJRC report. Once we take power in August 8 we will ensure that all those who were affected by the injustices are compensated." He also shot at Jubilee Party for luring leaders to decamp from ODM. He was referring to Eldas MP Adan Keynan, his Tarbaj counterpart Mohamed Elmi and over 20 MCAs who recently joined Jubilee. "Keynan and Elmi have lied to themselves by crossing to Jubilee. I want people to show them that Wajir is in Nasa by sending them home," he said. He lauded Wajir Governor Ahmed Abdullahi for improving the lives of the residents and ramped up support for his re-election. Also present was ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi who assured the residents that Nasa - comprising ODM, Ford-Kenya, Wiper Democratic Movement and ANC - will not disintegrate. READ: We will remain united, Nasa leaders declare   USE OF ACRONYM Mr Mudavadi responded to a suit filed by the Northern Advocacy for Sustainable Agriculture seeking to prevent the coalition from using the acronym 'Nasa'. "We made an agreement to stay together and we are not about to be shaken. I hear that some people are trying to use crude ways to bar us from using our Nasa name. I wish to tell this people that they are in fact helping us," he said. "Let them try and we will show them that Nasa belongs to Kenyans but not any individual. It does not belong to Raila, Wetang'ula or Kalonzo but all Kenyans. "Who has ever taken anyone to court because of a name? Why haven't other institutions like Jubilee Insurance sued Jubilee Party because of the name? This individual needs to be serious," he added. READ: NGO seeks to prevent Nasa from using acronym Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka lashed out at National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale, also Garissa Township MP, alleging he has not championed for the putting into action of TJRC's recommendations. "If indeed Duale is from this region, he has a responsibility to ensure that the mass killings that occured in Wagalla are brought to light for the sake of justice. That is a clear indication that Jubilee has no good intention." INSECURITY Mr Musyoka said that Nasa is serious about improving the welfare of Kenyans, and is not interested in participating in propaganda. He also cautioned the government against disrupting Opposition meetings, referring to the one by Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho in Kinango, Kwale County, on March 23 that was disrupted by police. READ: Police break up Hassan Joho rally   Governor Joho told the residents not to support Jubilee Party and that Nasa leaders will not be cowed in the quest for the country's development. On his part, Siaya Senator James Orengo urged the Somali community to be involved in security operations in the region. Mr Orengo said the Opposition will not relent in ensuring that perpetrators of the Wagalla massacre are brought to book. The atrocity took place in Wajir in 1984 claiming hundreds of lives. It came about after the launch of a security effort to end ethnic clashes.  