President Uhuru Kenyatta is a more avid consumer of Kenyan media content than those of us in the meat-wrapping business probably realise. In a conversation with him and his deputy, Mr William Ruto, last Monday, his clearly articulated thoughts on the coverage his administration receives were both revelatory and surprising. The assumption, for many reporters, is that the president  probably doesn’t read the copy himself or sit down to watch the nightly newscast but gets a brief on only what he needs to know. So when I asked him why his administration set up the delivery.go.ke website, which opposition-leaning bloggers quickly christened the portal of lies, he was crystal clear on its intention. “As a country, for a very long time we have always told negative stories; what should be done, how it could be done better. We’ve never sat down and solidly asked ourselves, how do we showcase what we have achieved?” he replied. “One of the biggest challenges, and Larry, you being one of them, is consistently in the media: ‘Tell us what you have done’ and so we decided that it is about time we used technology to make it available — because we have nothing to hide — to the people of the republic.” He made a strong case for the portal in a way that no speech would have done. In fact, it was one of the rare moments when the president didn’t have any official prepared remarks but spoke extemporaneously during a panel discussion. “So we have consolidated all this information into one portal that is accessible to all Kenyans, including you, Larry, so you don’t have to always go on air and say what has the government done. And hopefully, thereafter, Larry, when you go to your show, you can enlighten people instead of questioning them.” That president called me out by name repeatedly during the hour-long conversation as if using me as a representative of the whole industry to push back on the media narrative about his government. After Deputy President Ruto called the Eurobond scam “the greatest lie ever told in Kenya,” President Kenyatta went even further to put Jubilee’s borrowing in context. “So to those who say we are over-borrowing, I tell them the only reason you should be concerned is if that borrowing was being used for consumption or recurrent expenditure. But if that borrowing is going into investment, such as the railway, roads, water and health, things that are going to have a positive impact on the country in future, I don’t think we should be concerned.” He called on citizens to differentiate between truth and propaganda, referring to often withering criticism of government initiatives by the Opposition. A few days before we had the sit-down, many outlets reported that the price of a Sh2kg bag of maize flour had hit a historic high of Sh150, from about Sh60 just five years ago. “Larry, that’s what we keep saying: let’s get our facts right. In fact, in 2012, the price was almost Sh135 to 140. It was when we came in that the price of unga went below Sh100.” Yes, the head of state instantly fact-checked me on live television in front of his entire government and he was mostly right, just slightly off. Not only is he aware of the subject of news reports, he took the trouble to find the right data and had it at his fingertips. Neither he nor anybody in his team knew I would ask about that, so they couldn’t have prepped him for it in advance. The Uhuruto pair’s signature project is the soon-to-be-completed first phase of the Standard Gauge Railway from Mombasa to Nairobi. “It is the Jubilee administration that has put pledge to action. We are doing today what we should have done 20 years ago,” said Ruto. “The reason why we are doing so many things looking like we are spending so much money on infrastructure is because we are dealing with a delayed situation.” Whether you disagree with their policies or not, you can’t deny that they spoke to the state of the nation and responded to some concerns ordinary citizens have. I know a security guard I got into a conversation with certainly appreciated hearing directly from the country’s two top leaders. It was a rare joint interview with the Commander-in-Chief and his Number Two and it was most fascinating to watch the expressions of the Cabinet and their polite applause as their bosses made their points. “I see you have been bought by Jubilee,” someone whispered.  