Michael Wamaya was one of the top 10 finalists for the 2017 Global Teachers Prize. This prestigious prize, given by the Varkey Foundation, recognises exceptional teachers who have made an outstanding contribution to the teaching profession. He may not have walked away with the shiny trophy, but Michael says this nomination expanded his career in many ways. “The nomination put me in the midst of opinion leaders in education matters on the globe and proved that there is a lot of good happening in informal settlements in Kenya away from the usual tales of negativity that dominate the media,” he says. Michael is a ballet teacher, he teaches dance to children living in slums in Nairobi. “I feel that I have a responsibility towards the community where I was raised,” he explains. He was brought up in Mathare, where he still lives, even though there have been many opportunities for him to move base to what may seem as ‘greener pastures’. Michael’s dance training, a journey that started when he was 17, specialised in modern dance, ballet, and contemporary dance. His training took place through the now defunct Kenya Performing Arts Group at the Kenya National Theatre as well as in Holland and in the UK. He later joined One Fine Day Anno’s Africa as a trainer and he has been with them for nine years now. Even with all the exposure and the tempting opportunities that have come his way, Michael says that his heart is here, in Kenya’s informal settlements. UNIVERSAL ART “To begin with, my drive has never been about money. Growing up in Mathare awakened me to the reality that so much is needed to prepare kids for the life. I feel indebted to the generations that will come after me,” he says. “Back then, you could not get proper art training without a foreign scholarship. This is changing because more and more, we are educating our own.” While ballet dance in Kenya is still associated with a particular class of people, the affluent, Michael says that he does not have any special reason as to why, of all the dance-steps in the world, he settled on ballet. “For me, ballet is dance like any other, and all the demarcations we put as to what class of people can dance it exists in our heads. Yes, the ballet costumes don’t come cheap, and constructing a ballet studio is not cheap, but you can also get second-hand ballet costumes and a studio can be improvised,” Michael points out. Through One Fine Day Anno’s Africa, Michael teaches ballet in schools in informal settlements, the aim to introduce art in their learning. “Dance is a path towards the child’s mind. Through dance, we single out other strengths that these children have and begin to develop them through dance.” Through dance, Michael argues, children get in touch with their other aptitudes, such as reasoning, critical thinking, and besides boosting their self-esteem, this in turn improves their performance in class. “Some of the kids in my dance class have gotten opportunities to travel and others have even received scholarships to take their education further.” He points out that the system has neglected informal settlements, hence  the common problems affecting informal settlements such as teen pregnancies and crime. “There is some attention coming to the slums now in the form of education and health and art groups, so in a way, those growing up in slums now have more options than I had during my time - I hope that it continues to get better,” he says, adding that if the government commits to making education, health, sanitation and security accessible and affordable to all, there is a chance slums can be improved. For Michael, the favourite aspect of his job is the ability to change the negative perceptions that his charges might have about themselves and seeing them begin to see their self-worth. He teaches those between six and 18 years. “The best way to begin the reconstruction of informal settlements is by bringing kids on board when they are still young and begin to mold them appropriately.” If you are out there and are considering a career as a dance teacher, then just do it. But Michael is not blind to the fact that in Kenya, a career such as his is not held in high regard. This is a perception that he hopes will change with his (and other dance teachers’) continued good work. “Do not begin a career in dancing because you failed in school; without genuine interest, you will become frustrated,” Michael advices, and points out that you also need a healthy dose of patience and persistence and continuously improving your craft through various trainings. ***** He says... “Children who show a lot of interest and excel in ballet are taken to audition at the Dance Centre Kenya where, if they excel further, get scholarships from Artists for Africa and are able to further their craft. Opportunities available for ballet dancers include becoming ballet teachers, and with the exposure that comes with the training, they stand very good job opportunities abroad.”  