Cancer is one of the most pervasive illnesses. Not only does it affect the patient but also their family, friends, and colleagues. When a doctor takes a cancer case, he will not only be treating the patient but the community behind the patient, too. In the same vein, cancer does not just affect the health of the patient, it also has a direct impact on the economic, physical, psychological and social wellbeing of those affected, their families and friends. In Kenya, much of the emphasis has been placed on the economic consequences of the diseases, and rightly so, given the high cost of securing treatment at home and abroad. POINT OF CONTACTOften, cancer creeps on the patient unannounced and one may not be aware of what to expect once the doctor gives the diagnosis. New symptoms may come up, the patient panics and it may not be cost effective for them to keep going back to the doctor for further consultations every time another symptom comes up. However, a point of contact for the patient after diagnosis is highly valuable and necessary. This could be a qualified nurse or doctor for patients further along in their diagnosis. To illustrate how valuable this is, imagine a patient in a remote village, with a low source of income. The closest hospital is quite a distance away. A point of contact will cut down the cost of travelling, thus reducing psychological strain on the patient and their family. Another way cancer patients can be supported is through transport and hospitality services. APPROPRIATE ACCOMMODATION Some patients have to travel long distances to Nairobi or their main county hospital nearest to them for chemotherapy or radiotherapy treatment. These patients are already under severe strain from their symptoms, and the long journeys add to their physical and emotional exhaustion. County governments can consider offering free special transport services for patients who are too poor to organise their own transport. Taking into account the length of the journey and physical exhaustion experienced after undergoing chemotherapy, a journey back home may not be so appealing to the cancer patient. Moreover, some patients arrive for their treatment overnight to make it for their allotted session. Unfortunately, they lack funds to pay for private accommodation, often having to sleep on hospital benches. County governments ought to consider having designated accommodation for those scheduled for treatment. It is incredibly uncomfortable for any patient to sleep on a hospital bench, and painful for their relatives. PALLIATIVE CARELastly, palliative care should be of paramount consideration for cancer patients where treatment has been unsuccessful. Palliative care offers the opportunity for patients to live comfortably by managing pain and other symptoms until they pass on, and to do so with dignity. Despite the unsuccessful outcome, the health care system, the devolved governments and the families of the affected should not give up on the patients but instead offer all the support available. Referring patients to local hospitals for palliative care should be considered to protect the dignity of the patients. Sending them home with no further medical attention or follow-up can be distressing. The patients should be given the option of having continual care even where the picture looks bleak, especially when it comes to pain management. Psychologically, this will ease the burden on the family and care givers as they look after their loved ones. Yet again for those who cannot reach the hospital, a point of contact becomes even more vital at this stage. County governments should, therefore, seriously consider having cancer hospices for palliative care to be administered even for needy patients. Indeed, this should become a campaign issue for those seeking electing positions. Ms Gladys Burini works with international businesses on commercial litigation gladysburini1@gmail.com  