The anticipated educational system must prepare students for jobs that do not exist! Since the Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development (KICD) uploaded the 2017 Basic Education Curriculum Framework on its website, the document has been shared widely on social media platforms. It is a fine document that results from extensive consultations with stakeholders in the education sector. The framework is to guide the implementation of the anticipated educational reforms, which are intended to develop and nurture every learner’s potential in a competence-based learning environment. As stated in the framework, the vision of the reforms is to enable every learner to turn out to be an “engaged, empowered and ethical citizen.” Going by the demands of the 21st Century, these are the future workers we must train in order to attain sustainable development. For this reason, the envisioned educational reforms must be futuristic; because with the technological disruptions being experienced in all sectors, the concept of work will continue to change, and job descriptions will keep morphing. A thought leader in 21st Century education is quoted to have said: “We are preparing our learners for jobs that do not exist; and that we are preparing them to solve problems that do not exist.” This being the case, the anticipated educational reforms must be prepared to manage these future expectations. The knotty questions that arise are: What jobs are likely to emerge in this uncertain future? What skills will these jobs demand of the learners who are currently in school? And, most importantly, how do we develop these requisite competences in our students, and how do we provide a learning environment that will nurture these skills? In the last couple of years, restructuring in organisations has become commonplace. People have lost jobs in retrenchment programs. Others have been compelled to re-engineer themselves by acquiring a new skill set in order to fit in newly emerging jobs. CLOUD-BASED JOBS One thing is certain: Regardless of the sector, many institutions across the globe will continue to begrudgingly release some of their most resourceful staff as organisations restructure to cope with the disruptions that come with new and advanced technologies. With this trend, organisations as we know them today will be a thing of the past. Work as we know it will be reshaped. Workers will have to re-engineer themselves, or be retrenched to give away to those with the required skill set. This being the reality, the anticipated education system must be cognizant of this fact and put in place measures to mitigate this uncertainty. The system must train the current learners for un-existing jobs, as well as prepare them to solve emerging problems using unconventional methods. We may not be able to predict with accuracy the jobs that will be in existence. But for starters, jobs are increasingly becoming cloud-based. With Internet connectivity, collaborative platforms have become the Now-Big-Thing. Engaging in virtual work operation is becoming the new normal. Teams are assembled in digital space to provide customer services, maintenance, and support. Today’s worker is selling information services, products, systems, and processes without leaving the comfort of their work- or home-based office. With cloud-based technology, sales are being conducted from anywhere, and at any time. Undoubtedly, this is reshaping the workplace. Notably, collaboration is a key competency highlighted in the KICD Basic Education Framework. An online search for jobs likely to exist in the future yields some that are unique and bizarre at the same time. Think of jobs such as end-of-life planner, weather hackers and controllers, dream programmers, garbage re-designers, virtual data de-clutterer, and climate reversal regulators. Others are nostalgists, who will recreate memories for the elderly; bad memory surgeons, who will erase bad memories; extinction revivalists who will bring back extinct animals; time hackers, brokers, bankers, and traders, who will lend you time at an interest; and gravity pullers who will hack, decode, and influence the force of gravity. There was an interesting one that made me think of the young but wasted tech-savvy Alex Mutungi Mutuku: that of an ethical hacker or a white-hat hacker. This is a professional who is highly paid to test the vulnerability of companies’s computer networks, and where necessary offer solutions to make the systems secure. However ridiculous these jobs sound, we cannot disregard them. The future has become too unpredictable. The crucial thing for now is to focus on the requisite skills that learners must acquire, and have them incorporated as must-have outcomes in the anticipated competence-based curriculum. Another key competency in the 21st Century is problem solving. Gladly, this is also in the 2017 KICD Basic Education Curriculum Framework. We must train learners to become problem hackers. As one thought leader observes, jobs are no longer narrow, routine, and repetitive. New problems emerge every day, and future workers must have the skill to solve arising problems in new ways. It will not be surprising to find jobs adverts indicating that the applicant needs no experience, but must have the competency of initiative, the ability to solve problems, and the willingness to try new unconventional approaches to solve emerging problems. Reportedly, about two-thirds of wealth globally is currently being generated in the information-service sector and in the digital space. This means that in future, the learners we have in schools today will make more money selling information products, processes, services, innovations, and solutions than they will make in manufacturing tangible goods and products. The future worker will, therefore, be required to exhibit a high level of information literacy to be able to identify, search, evaluate, interpret, and apply the required information in solving problems. The anticipated education must, therefore, prepare these learners to work in this future sphere of work.  Again, digital and information literacy are competencies highlighted in the KICD document. COMPETENCY OF RESPONSIBILITY The learners must also be trained to be self-managers and leaders. They must learn to be self-directed. With the radical changes taking place in the workplace in current times, layers of management are being eliminated. Organisations are flattening their structures. In the new setting, there is less emphasis on hierarchy and supervision. As one writer puts it, companies are declaring hierarchy dead, and it seems that the beginning of the end of managers is nigh. In the new setting, horizontal relationships are now more common and will become the new normal in the future working environment. I read about a company that uploaded their employee handbook online. A line in the handbook was crystal clear: “We don’t have any management … and nobody reports to anybody. We do have a president, but even he is not your manager.” The structure is reported to have spurred creativity and innovation among staff. If this is the workplace that the current crop of learners will be working in, there will be no boss to give them instructions. The learners must, therefore, develop the competency of responsibility. With minimal supervision, these future workers will be expected to take up more responsibility for their work. This scenario will highly call for self-efficacy and collaborative skills. The KICD Framework captures self-efficacy as one’s belief in his or her capabilities to deliver on assigned tasks. It will be upon the individual to initiate own projects and drive them to completion. The project initiator will be expected to identify and work with team members who will contribute to the task. He or she will be expected to ensure that the job gets done to the expected standard, or even to exceed the expectations. Performance appraisal will be based on the output, as well as the value added. With the requirement of high collaborative skills, the future worker will also be required to have a high degree of soft skills to be able to relate with team members in collaborative projects. Coupled with this, the worker will be required to exhibit the competency of global citizenship, and with a high level of multicultural literacy. He or she will be required to relate with people from diverse backgrounds, either in face-to-face encounters or in a virtual environment. This may require one to learn multiple foreign languages. In addition to global citizenship as a key competency, the KICD document lists Arabic, French, German, and Mandarin as the foreign languages to be offered in the competence-based curriculum. The Kenya Sign Language is also included in the framework. Last but not the least, another crucial competency highlighted in the curriculum framework is life-long learning. With technological disruptions, static job descriptions as we know them will no longer apply. Tasks and projects will keep morphing. This will, of course, translate to a new skill set requirement. This setting will require employees to keep learning and relearning to develop the desired skills. Alvin Toffler, a writer and a futurist who passed away in 2016, is quoted to have said that the illiterate of the 21st Century will not be those who cannot read and write, but those who cannot learn, unlearn, and relearn. This competency of life long learning will, therefore, be highly valued as organisations will keep changing their strategies and approaches to remain competitive. This will equally require that employees embrace with enthusiasm the ability to learn, unlearn, and relearn. As the Ministry of Education takes the reforms process to the next level, it is hoped that they will continue to closely engage the stakeholders, and that the discussions will contribute to the achievement of the desired outcome.  