Jivu is the musical act behind ‘Form ni Gani’ and ‘Different Response’ hits that have amassed a hits on YouTube. The group has two members hailing from different parts of the country brought together by their shared love of music. They tell www.nation.co.ke about their musical journey, losing women they loved and finding their way back. Their music has earned them a huge following and taken them places where they mingle with the high and mighty. Jivu which means grey is made up Keragori Johnson aka Uncle K, 23 and Anderson Chege, 25, the duo are raring to go and waiting for their big break. 1.When did it all begin? We started music right after high school (2012) and (2011) respectively. Our style is a fusion of Hip hop, R&B and African pop. 2.What are your earliest inspirations? Uncle K: 2pac, Sisqo and Harry Kimani. I was given my first music album (All Eyes On ME by Tupac) by my big bro and I couldn’t understand or speak English then but I could Rap along most of the songs. Chege Anderson: MJ, Kirk franklin, Ogopa dejaays, Erick Wainaina for the effort they put in always being different in style both in music and their lifestyles. Jivu is th.When did you know you were cut out for this?e midpoint of the black and white reality depicted by Grey which is Kijivu in Swahili. 3.When did you know you were cut out for this? Our first real big break came during the 2015 Miss Plus Size Kenya beauty contest held at Nairobi’s Weston Hotel. The audience demanded an encore  from us on a night that we were the clear underdogs. Aginst more established acts, they asked that we do the final performance after the headline performance. It is this love and appreciation that assured us that we could do it.   4.You had some great highs, tell us about it Being able to finally release our first official project titled “Form Ni Gani”, and Chege meeting the President too. We also got to work with amazing artistes most of all, we enjoyed working with Dillie because he’s taught us how paramount patience is if we’re going to make things work out for us in the music industry. We’ve also met a couple cool people who ended up becoming our friends. We are grateful that we count Calvo Mistari, Blinky Bill, Didge, Yvionna, Moonboy and of course Khaligraph jones among our pals. We have released two songs and performed at a good number of gigs around Nairobi. Music is our fulltime gig, our biggest challenge is putting together the perfect team. Our plan is to be the best that Jivu can possibly be. 5. It been smooth sailing then? Uncle K: Losing a sister who was more of a best friend was a tough time for me. You lose yourself when some people in your life vanish from existence ad most of my journey since then has been trying to find myself which I’m starting to love and embrace. Life is a ticking time bomb so live, give and love now. Chege Anderson: My mother died in 2014. I have recovered. The journey to recovery was quite tough which has taught me how to remain focused even in the harshest of situations. 6. What plans do you have? We are shooting our next music video for a grand release with Osidiama Moses of Brain Works after our previous project was shot by Odibz for Team Mistari. We’d love to work with any good directors that understand our style of music and the message. 7. How do you two make it work? Uncle K: Chege has to be the Joker of the group while I am the serious one and make most of the plans, from studio to gigs we perform at and other necessary decisions like that. 8. Are you currently in a relationship? Uncle K: Currently, I’m not dating. Chege Anderson) Not dating. 9. If you are both single, then who is cheering you on? Uncle K: at first my family did not support my decision to play music. They didn't like the idea one bit. But every move and progress I made musically left them with no choice but to support and believe in me and my craft. Chege Anderson: My dad was skeptical at the beginning but lately, after noticing my commitment to the music, he has been supportive. 10. What plans do you have your fans? Right now we opt for less talk, but just to urge the people out there to connect with us on our social media (Instagram - @Jivugram Twitter - @JivuMusic Facebook - JIVU & JIVU on YouTube) to interact and get to know our every step in music. Our debut EP is in the works, no release dates confirmed though and our fans on social media will be the first to know. 11. So are you rolling in the dough yet? We're yet to earn any royalties from our music. The little we get from shows we perform at gets us by. Still waiting for that rainy day. Generally life itself is expensive, but with passion and commitment you can actually achieve anything you put your mind to. That is both our mentality and drive.  