Laiser Hill Academy are the new national boys' basketball champions after upsetting holders Upper Hill 51-43 in a thrilling final at State House Girls on Saturday as the Brookside National Secondary School Term One Games came to a close.It is Laiser's first national title since 2011 and sixth in total. It was also sweet revenge for the Kajiado-based school after losing to their nemesis in the 2012 nationals final.Upper Hill have also beaten Laiser in the Metropolitan Region (now referred to as Nairobi) finals for the last four years before the Ministry of Education reverted the school games format to the old boundaries.Kaya Tiwi retained their girls' title after they edged out St Brigids Kiminini 48-35 in the final to clinch their second successive national title. Upper Hill versus Laiser Hill was everyone s dream final and the clash did not disappoint as both teams put in brilliant displays in a nail-biting encounter.The final whistle drew wild celebrations from Laiser Hill players and their fans but it was heartbreak for Upper Hill as their impressive record was brought to a halt. We have lost to them for several years and it feels nice to finally get one over them. It was a tight match and all teams gave everything but I think we wanted it more and that eventually allowed us to come back and win, Laiser Hill captain Sheldon Ouma said.Upper Hill looked like they were home and dry as they led 39-36 with three and half minutes of the match left before the late drama. A double-three pointer from Laiser Hill point guard Elvis Ssentongo in the space of a minute swung the pendulum in Laiser s advantage as they took a 42-39 lead with two minutes left. Upper would then hit back as guard Aneng Deng raced clear to sink two points to bring Upper Hill to within a point of Laiser.Deng had the chance to win it for Upper Hill but only scored one of the two free throws he was awarded to leave the scores levelled. Ssentongo sunk another three pointer and Laiser would go on to complete a remarkable comeback.In the girls contest, Kaya Tiwi recovered from a slow start to edge out St Brigid s, who were playing in their second final after 2015. Beryl Aoko and Christine Aoko top scored for Tiwi with 10 points each while Clara Rotich was St Brigid s lead scorer with eight. In third place playoffs, Tigoi beat Buruburu 47-33 to grab the girls last ticket to the East Africa games while Kisumu Boys dismissed Nyeri Baptist 69-46 to complete the boy podium. email print email print The top three sides will represent the country in the East African Games.