Describe yourself in three words. Work in progress. What quote do you live by? Life is too rich to live by one mantra only. Are you married? If not, are you dating? I am not married. And I don’t date. Do you have children? No. Private or public wedding? I would prefer a very private wedding because I am a very private person. What’s with the colour in your hair? I like red. I think it’s hot. Who knew it would become a brand? Your take on fashion in Kenya? Fashion in Kenya is very, very young, still coming out of its cocoon. Granted, it looks impressive and dazzling from the outside with the rise of bloggers, stylists, photographers, publications, awards and designers with people making a living out of it and parents who no longer oppose entry. But fashion is also riddled with politics and is struggling to become an industry. I can’t really say we are there until we create fashion multi-millionaires and empires, entrench government policies that support the industry, revamp the training and education of talent, build mentorship bridges and boast listed companies. Still, the only way to go is up. Your fashion tips, advice on dressing? True fashion tips are quite boring. Dress to suit your body type and personality. You will make mistakes so use them as a learning opportunity. Don’t take fashion too seriously; we are not finding the cure to cancer. Wardrobe essentials for both men and women... Black basics: shoes, bag, suit, fitted leather jacket, classic watch and good perfume. Where do you go for your shopping? I detest shopping. It is so time consuming. I tend to design then tailor a generous portion of my wardrobe or get it from local fashion houses. The rest comes from retail stores about once every four to six months. I flirted with mitumba but I just don’t have the patience, I’m terrible at haggling and I hate not having access to a well-lit changing room. What does it take to be a fashionista? I’m not even sure what this word means. My interest in fashion is a part of my upbringing. It was simply there. Style to me, not just fashion, is about self-expression, self-love, self-awareness and fun. I don’t know what motivates others but I find style is about being a better version of yourself. What’s your favourite meal? I love eating so this would be quite an extensive list! What are you most proud of? I don’t have professional accomplishments that outrank each other. I do have to say though that I am honoured to have been: Kenya Fashion Awards Media Personality of the Year 2015, EA Fashion Journalist of the Year 2014, DRUM 100 Movers & Shakers 2014. My biggest accomplishments, though, are of a deeply personal nature with equally personal rewards. What were you doing before becoming a fashion journalist? I am a journalist. I have always been a journalist. Fashion is but one beat which has overshadowed being a news reporter, business journalist, features writer and lifestyle journalist where I was also a magazine editor. (Carol was the editor for society and lifestyle magazine Drum East Africa for four years. She left in November 2014.) Who in your life has influenced you the most? I feel like anyone who reads my columns is now very well versed in the nature of relationship I have with my mother. Mum isextremely supportive, loving, an absolute sweetheart... And my dad who taught me to go for it, even when I have made decisions that should make me flinch. My parents have taught me compassion, empathy and love. What lessons did you learn from your mother as a teenager? When I was 16, I cornered my mum and asked her what would happen if I got pregnant. She said, ‘We would just take care of it. What else is there to do?’ I learnt that she’ll always have my back. What colour do you like? I had a thing with black for years. It drove everyone batty. Once I started doing TV though I simply couldn’t. It would have bored people to tears. Now I try anything once. Future expectations? Aside from the typical husband, kids, homes, private jet and ranch? I would like to keep my cards close to my chest. What’s your dream car? I’m a little crazed behind the wheel. Over the years, my dream car has remained the BMW X5 and Mercedes W124. Nothing seems to be able to talk me out of it. For how long have you been a fashion journalist? I have been a journalist since February 2006. Do you drink? If No, what keeps you awake at night? I don’t drink. (Is alcohol supposed to keep me up at night or put me to sleep ...?) What keeps me up at night is never having lived up to my potential. What will never miss in your handbag? Lipstick, tablet, novel, notebook, wallet and a stack of pens. What do you consider the right age to get married? I’m not sure there is a right age to get married though experts mention 28. However, based on my own personal development, I could not possibly have been ready for a husband before 30. What makes you happy? My nephew’s laugh makes me happy. Who are your mentors? If by mentors you mean people I meet and have conversations with, I can’t say I have those. But I observe Tabitha Karanja (CEO Keroche), Suzie Wokabi (CEO Suzie Beauty), Wandia Gichuru (MD Vivo Activewear), Arianna Huffington and Diddy. I like how they do the things that they do.  