We are Gor Mahia. We win when it matters. We lose arrogantly. We live to enjoy our football. One of the greatest teams in the world!Ladies and gentlemen, welcome for this ride. Where we will clinch the diadem once again. Been trolling the net and reading about football. Read about that hopeless team that goes by the name AFC Leopards and their high priest of propaganda called Peter Leftie and his hirelings John Ashiundu and David Kwalimwa.Non starters. How do you go through life supporting that hopeless team? But then again Kenya is a democracy and we allow all to pick their choice.If the world was a fair place Gor Mahia would be playing with our peers, Barcelona, Newell s Old Boys or maybe at the lower level Manchester United. But that is how the world is. Now read what a good pal of mine wrote about football. Before I bring you the hooligans of the world next week. This is from my good buddy who writes for Assist News.Christianity, with more than 2.2 billion believers, ranks second among the major religions of the world.So, who s first? Well believe it or not, the church of soccer tops the list, while Christianity is second, with Islam and its 1.6 million adherents, comes in third.One billion fans tuned in to watch the final of the 2014 Fifa World Cup in Rio de Janeiro, with the competition reaching a global in-home television audience of 3.2 billion people, according to final figures from Fifa and Kantar Media.Please bear in mind that the world s population in 2013 was estimated at 7.125 billion.It is not clear how many people attend the church of soccer games - or football, as most of the world calls it - but my recent visit to England bore out for me how soccer has become a larger religion, with its hymns, sung by fanatical fans, priests (coaches or managers), and huge crowds making pilgrimages to churches -stadiums - to go through the often painful ritual of supporting their team and seeing the player-objects of their devotion in person.It is often a form of tribalism that is more passionate than you d find in even the most organised of religions. Most religious leaders at least pay lip service to the brotherhood-sisterhood of those who follow other faiths/teams, but the single-minded tribalism among so many fans is overwhelming.They wear the jerseys of their favourite teams, and the opposition are generally considered the enemy, sometimes literally, with chants attacking them. email print email print