At long last, the National Super Alliance has named its flag-bearer in the August 8 presidential election. Mr Raila Odinga clinched the ticket with Mr Kalonzo Musyoka as his running mate. In effect, it is a replay of the 2013 elections when the duo, then under Cord, ran against Mr Uhuru Kenyatta and Mr William Ruto of Jubilee. From now on, it can be surmised that the two main coalitions – Jubilee and Nasa – have started the race for State House though the campaign period has not started formally. NEW POSITIONSKenyans should, therefore, brace themselves for three months of intense and heightened electioneering. Nasa has made several pledges, key among them re-configuring the government to introduce new positions. At the core of their agenda is fighting corruption and ensuring enhanced service delivery. Quite often, political formations seeking to ascend to power make noble pledges. But available evidence shows that most of the pledges are never implemented. MOU TRASHEDIn 2002, the Opposition formed the National Rainbow Coalition, which went on to dethrone Kanu, the Independence party, with grand promises of revitalising and redefining state craft. Except for a few areas such as free primary education, Narc became a monumental disaster. A memorandum of understanding signed by its co-principals was trashed as Mr Mwai Kibaki ascended to power. Although Narc had been billed to be collegial administration that would espouse the principles of equity, justice, democracy and fair-play, it quickly degenerated into political morass. This is why the public has become suspicious of pre-election MoUs. CODE OF CONDUCTThe country is already in an election mood and the challenge to the political formations is to conduct themselves with dignity. The chaotic party primaries were utterly disappointing, raising doubts about commitment to democracy and good governance. The coalitions must be orderly and respect the law. Campaigns must be sober and issue-based, rather than trading insults, balkanisation and intimidation. Politicians must shun violence. We must observe proper hygiene in politics.  