Q. I am new in this company (a fairy small company) and the work ethic and culture is not really defined. Apart from my job description, I do not know what else is expected of me. I have been observing my colleagues and it seems to me that anything goes. I have tried to do this too and sometimes it works but other times, I have upset some people in the process, such as referring to them by their surname instead of their first name. Without a code of conduct to act as a reference, how do I chart my way?  The early days in a new work environment can be a little unsettling as one tries to tune into a new way of life. This is true even in organisations where employee induction is taken seriously. Although company values may be easy to publish, it is not possible to encode every aspect of an organisational culture onto a script. We learn about culture mostly by being part of it and observing how life is led in a new environment. Every company has a culture, whether it has been deliberately hewn or left to take its own course. From your description, it appears that the culture in your organisation is still taking form. Your experiences show that the interpretation of how things are done varies with the people you interact with. Crafted right, culture can be a formidable force behind an organisation’s success. A poor culture can however severely undermine an organisation. How do the leaders in your organisation behave? Which behaviours are applauded in the company? Which ones are frowned upon? Have you spoken to your supervisor about the matter? The answers to these questions may point you towards what is expected of you. In any event, adopting values and behaviour that support performance such as hard work, respect for self and others, integrity and collaboration would be welcome in any company aspiring to be successful. By so doing, one could become a point of reference and help to inspire a positive culture. Incidentally, be neither too formal that you appear starchy nor too informal that you seem casual. Learning a new culture may take some time, much like learning a new language. Being new, do not fret if you find yourself occasionally missing, misplacing or mispronouncing a few words.  