Athletics Kenya president Jackson Tuwei has urged athletes to run clean as investigations on Jemimah Sumgong continue.Sumgong, the 2016 London Marathon champion and Rio Olympics gold medallist, last week failed an out of competition doping test for banned blood-booster Erythropoietin (EPO).He was speaking in Kapsabet, Nandi County during his tour of various athletes training camps in the area. We all know Kenya has been on the IAAF doping watch list for a while now and that s why I want to urge our athletes to run clean as we wait for investigations on Sumgong to be completed, said Tuwei. We don t entertain any athlete who is doping and when such cases come up, due process will be followed and those found guilty will face the consequences, said the AK president.Tuwei said AK has been holding seminars for athletes and sending them the list of banned substances as a way of creating awareness. We had to go a little bit further by holding seminars and printing out details of the banned substances for them to be aware. We don t want anybody to doubt Kenyan athletes performances whenever they compete outside the country. Tuwei warned athletes to be careful on the substances they take during training saying their managers were not responsible if the athletes failed dope tests. The athlete is responsible for what he or she takes since the manager and the coach will not be there full time, added Tuwei.The AK chief also congratulated the couple who won the Paris Marathon last weekend for their bravery and commitment. I want to congratulate the couple who won the Paris Marathon for making history. Such a thing has never happened before and it should therefore encourage others to always run clean. Tuwei confirmed that AK has plans in place to have Team Kenya for the World Championships start preparations early. We will be preparing the team that will be going for the World Championships in London early since we are the defending champions and we want to retain our title, he said.He was accompanied by track and field and marathon coaches. email print email print Afundi said athletes from Uganda are expected to grace the meeting.