Governors from insecurity-prone counties in the North Rift region have been urged to initiate joint border projects in a bid to curb hostilities. More than 50 people have died in a period of six months along the borders of West Pokot, Turkana, Baringo and Elgeyo-Marakwet counties due to conflicts. West Pokot Senator John Lonyangapuo has now urged the government to initiate projects along the borders of the four counties to help spur development. Prof Lonyangapuo said that the area has been experiencing insecurity largely due to high illiteracy levels and unemployment, leading to lack of development in the region. He said the national and county governments should put more resources along the border to open up the area so as to engage idle youths causing mayhem in the area. SET UP SCHOOLS Speaking Thursday at Chepareria, Prof Lonyangapuo said there is need to set up schools and improve infrastructure in the area to help end the cattle rustling menace. “It is a big challenge to respond to insecurity incidents because of poor terrain. “Our security officers find it hard to pursue cattle rustlers and we are calling upon the government to provide them with a military helicopter,” said Prof Lonyangapuo. MAINTAIN PEACE Senator Lonyangapuo urged locals to maintain peace and report suspicious criminals to security agencies in the region. He said the National Government Constituency Development Fund, and county funds should be used to initiate development projects in the area. “We need collective efforts to maintain and spearhead peace. We don’t want rivalry among Members of Parliament, governors and MCAs. We require total commitment to peace,” said Prof Lonyangapuo. He called on residents of Kerio Valley to co-exist peacefully with their neighbours. “There is great need for the residents of Marakwet East, Tiaty and Tot Chaputulel to be allowed to access water and pasture for their animals,” he said.   Injured officer rushed to Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital in Eldoret for treatment.