Shinyalu MP Lisamula Anami’s re-election bid suffered a setback after he lost to former MP Justus Kizito Mugali in repeat ODM nominations on Friday. Mr Mugali was declared the winner by the returning officer - Bishop William Abuka - after he garnered 13,904 while the incumbent got 6,660 votes. Results from three polling stations had not been received the time the returning officer made his announcement. But Mr Anami rejected the results saying the returning officer should address the issue of the 2400 marked ballot papers found in the possession of deputy returning officer who was arrested on Friday night. “There were no elections in Shinyalu. We cannot accept what happened since the repeat nominations were a sham and a mockery of the wishes voters in Shinyalu. I’m holding consultations with my supporters on the next cause of action,” said Mr Anami. The lawmaker questioned why the returning officer had rushed to declare the results before investigating the incident involving marked ballot papers found in the possession of the deputy presiding officer. We are aware the deputy presiding officer had been going round the constituency marking ballot papers and stuffing ballot boxes in favour of my opponent and I cannot accept the results,” said Mr Anami. The repeat nominations were ordered by the ODM National Elections Board after Mr Anami challenged the outcome of the earlier primaries citing irregularities during the process. Mr Anami had complained that voters in his strongholds were locked out of the primaries due to delay to deliver ballot boxes and papers. Mr Abuka said the results were credible and reflected the wishes of voters in Shinyalu. “The ODM election board gave me a job to do and I have done my best to ensure the process is credible and smooth so that voters in Shinyalu get the opportunity to express their democratic choice,” said Mr Bishop Abuka. The repeat primaries were largely peaceful except for an incident involving a Kakamega cleric arrested on Friday night with 10 booklets and some marked ballot papers packed in a carton in his car. The Bishop said he had been appointed as a deputy presiding officer in one of the polling stations in Shinyalu. The cleric was arrested by youths who claimed he had been involved in a scheme to stuff ballot boxes during the repeat primaries. Shinyalu police bossJoseph Chebii said the cleric and another suspect will be arraigned in court on Tuesday.  