NEW YORK NBA individual award trophies for the 2016-17 season, including those in six new fan-voted categories, will be unveiled together in the inaugural NBA Awards show June 26 in New York. The league announced Thursday that traditional season-end awards will be presented at the gala, to be hosted by singer-entertainer Drake, as well as new awards in which voting has already started. Finalists were named for the new fan-voting awards, which include Best Style, Dunk of the Year, Block of the Year, Assist of the Year, Game Winner of the Year and Top Performance of the Year. Voting on social media can be done via Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and the NBA's website. The show will unite the announcements of such awards as the NBA Most Valuable Player, Rookie of the Year, Defensive Player of the Year, Sixth Man Award, Most Improved Player, Coach of the Year, Executive of the Year, Sportsmanship Award, Teammate of the Year plus announcement of the NBA All-Rookie and All-Defensive team rosters. Performance of the Year finalists include Oklahoma City's Russell Westbrook with the most points of any triple double in NBA history with 57 points, 13 rebounds and 11 assists against Orlando, Houston's James Harden with a 53-point, 16-rebound, 17-assist triple double against New York, Golden State's Klay Thompson scoring 60 points in three quarters against Indiana and Devin Booker netting 70 points for Phoenix against Boston. Style finalists include wardrobe looks and fashion statements for Westbrook, Chicago's Dwyane Wade and Cleveland's Iman Shumpert. Dunk of the Year candidates include slams through the hoop by Minnesota's Zach LaVine, Oklahoma City's Victor Oladipo and Larry Nance Jnr of the Los Angeles Lakers. Block of the Year candidates are shots stuffed by Miami's Hassan Whiteside, New York's Kristaps Porzingis and San Antonio's Kawhi Leonard. Assist of the Year hopefuls are passes by Golden State's Draymond Green to Stephen Curry and then along to Kevin Durant, a no-look effort from Denver's Nikola Jokic and a wraparound toss from Chris Paul of the Los Angeles Clippers. Game Winner of the Year includes crucial baskets by Westbrook versus Denver, Phoenix's Tyler Ulis against Boston and Cleveland's Kyrie Irving against Golden State.   Spurs secured a 103-96 victory over the Memphis Grizzlies.