Religious leaders have warned that the rise in incidents of politicians using abusive language against their political opponents may lead to chaos, if not checked. Sheikh Mohamed Khalifa, the organising secretary of the Council of Imams and Preachers of Kenya (CIPK) challenged State agencies mandated to vet aspirants to bar such politicians from seeking any elective posts. Sheikh Khalifa was addressing journalists on the sidelines of a stakeholders’ forum held by the Kenya Film Classification Board that was held at Travellers Beach Hotel, Mombasa, with the aim of collecting religious leaders' views on the review of the Film and Stage Plays Act Cap 222. “Members of (the) public cannot tolerate any more leaders who are intolerant [and] disrespect and incite Kenyans along tribal lines,” added Sheikh Khalifa. PROFESSIONAL BODIES Mombasa County Commissioner Evans Achoki who was present during the forum urged the media to conduct themselves professionally before, during and after the forthcoming elections. Sheikh Khalifa challenged the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI), the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) and the National Cohesion and Integration Commission (NCIC) to prosecute politicians propagating hooliganism and violence that has been witnessed in the recent past across the country. “The political violence witnessed in Migori County the other day should not be allowed to happen again since it is a threat to the security and stability of the country ahead of the polls,” he said. “These agencies are failing Kenyans because they are mandated to take legal action against some of these leaders. Kenyans should not be allowed to be used by politicians to fight their neighbours because of political differences,” added the cleric. APPROACHING ELECTIONS Religious leaders are increasingly concerned with the state of the nation as the clock ticks towards the August 8 elections. They repeatedly pleaded with politicians to save the country from a repeat of the 2007/2008 bloody chaos in which thousands of Kenyans lost their lives while others were displaced from their homes. Recently, the Inter-Religious Council of Kenya (IRCK) chairman Adan Wachu and board member, Dr Nelson Makanda, said the posterity of the country is more important than the outcome of elections. “We are urging all stakeholders in this country to honour the sanctity of the laws and the Constitution we have given ourselves so that we go to the election without acrimony,” said Dr Makanda. The Muslim, Christian and Hindu religious leaders’ umbrella body said they are the voice of Kenyans, adding that they are committed to telling Kenyans, particularly the youth, not to be incited by politicians to cause violence and fight each other. They observed that there is a similarity between this year’s election and the disputed 2007 elections in which the country was plunged into political crisis.  