Despite failing to win any ball games title at the Brookside National Secondary Schools Term One Games, Nairobi Region ruled the roost in the waters, emerging tops in both boys and girls swimming competitions.Nairobi topped the discipline with a total of 452 points with Coast and Nyanza regions following in second and third places on 379 and 259 points respectively.DOMINATING THE FIELDNairobi region also produced the Most Valuable Players in both boys and girls categories. The reigning Safaricom Sports Personality of the Year Awards (Soya) schools girls player of the year Hadassah Gichovi was feted in the girls section as Emmanuel Ndonga took the boys prize. Gichovi, who also won the accolade at last year s East African Games in Eldoret, topped in three of her specialities to lead the hosts in dominating the field. I won in the 200 metres breaststroke, 200 metres butterfly and 200 metres Individual medley, which is a result of hard work and consistency in training, she said, adding that the competition was tough since she was competing with older girls.Gichovi, a 15-year-old Form Two student at Loreto Convent is now hoping to repeat her heroics at the regional showpiece set for August. It is in Eldoret where she impressed, breaking two records last year. She clocked two minutes, 46.32 seconds to break the 2:47.15 previous record of Virginia Okumu in the 200m individual medley and set the 32.27 record erasing the Anthea Mudanye s (Uganda) record of 35.08 set last year in Huye, Rwanda.She started swimming at the age of six and is now focused in bettering her career. Gichovi won a silver medal in the girls 50 metres butterfly 12 years and under at the 2014 African Swimming Confederation Zone Three and Four championships in Uganda.Ndonga, on the other hand impressed in the 100 metres butterfly and 100 metres individual medley blowing off the field. Nairobi topped in 15 out of the 17 categories for both boys and girls .As expected, Rift Valley would clinch top honours in heptathlon and decathlon. In heptathlon, the region amassed a total of 15,583 points to finish ahead of Central (15,034) and Western (14,705). In decathlon, Rift Valley finished on 23,536 points as Central and Eastern took second and third places with 22,354 and 22,042 points, respectively.MVP ACCOLADESCross country was also a Rift Valley affair as the region again showed its prowess in the discipline. In the absence of two-time boys champion Andrew Lorot, who completed his Form Four education last year at Riruta Central Secondary School, Ronex Kipruto won the boys eight-kilometre race in 22:52.4 while Celphine Chepsol cruised to victory in 19:39.7 in the girls six-kilometre race. Kipruto finished third last year with Lorot marking his last year in high school with victory at Moi Girls Kamusinga. Kipruto and Chepsol won the MVP accolades in cross country.Chepsol won a bronze medal in the junior race at last year s IAAF World Cross Country Championships in Kampala. email print email print Coaches agree that this year s national finals among the most competitive.