Former Interior cabinet secretary Joseph Ole Lenku is the Jubilee Party candidate for Kajiado gubernatorial race. From results announced at the Maasai Technical Training Institute (MTTI), in Kajiado town, Mr Ole Lenku trounced former Kenya Meat Commission (KMC) Chairman Taraiya Ole Kores. Mr Ole Lenku polled 88,105 votes against Mr Ole Kores’ 37,690. The former CS will now face off with Dr David Nkedianye, who was given a direct ticket by ODM, on August 8. The announcement of the results marks the end of a campaign period characterised by fierce rivalry which at some point threatened to get personal. In his acceptance speech Mr Ole Lenku extended an olive branch to his rival, asking Mr Ole Kores to join him in advancing the Jubilee agenda. “I know the campaign period has been tough, at times we called each other names,” he said adding “Let us forgive each other and work towards defeating our formidable enemy.” Mr Ole Kores was however not present to congratulate Mr Ole Lenku. He did not show up the whole day. The former CS, who was flanked by his running mate Martin Moshisho, promised to develop the whole of the county should he be elected in August. Ms Janet Teiyaa, emerged victor for the party’s Woman Rep ticket with 29,800 votes. Kajiado Senator Peter Mositet lost to newcomer Philip Mpaayei. Mr Mositet got 52,022 votes against Mr Mpaayei’s 62,077. At some point, the senator stormed the tallying centre, accusing the returning officer Jeremiah Ole Ncharo of rigging him out in favour of Mr Mpayeei. He engaged the returning officer in a heated argument asking to be showed signed forms for the nomination. Mr Ncharo had to call security who threw the legislator out of the hall. Later, he said he would consult his supporters for his next move. Police officers cordoned off the Hall, as tension rose and fears of violence ran high. Elsewhere, Kajiado West MP Moses Sakuda lost to George Sunkuyia, the Kajiado County Deputy Speaker. Mr Sakuda garnered 7,479 vote to Sunkuyia's 10,189. Kajiado East MP Peris Tobiko retained her seat by beating Kajiado Woman Rep Mary Seneta. Ms Tobiko got 9,243 while SMs enata got 5,742. In Kajiado North, Joseph Manje managed 10,419 votes to beat beat Parsimei Gitau who got 4,717. In Kajiado South, Katoo Ole Metito was unchallenged. In Kajiado Central, which is held by ODM's Memusi Kanchori, Christopher Koisikir got 13,338 to beat his closest challenger, Anthony Kiroken, who polled 11,077.  