As the August elections close in, President Uhuru Kenyatta has cautioned leaders against destructive politics, saying they only work to hurt the people. He asked Kenyans to instead unite to fight challenges that afflict the nation. “Ndovu wakipigana nyasi ndiyo huumia….ndovu ni hawa wanasiasa na nyasi ni wananchi (When elephants fight, the grass suffers….elephants here are politicians while grass represents electorates),” he said when addressing a rally at Emurua Dikirr in Narok County. ENHANCE DEVELOPMENT He said Kenyans are faced with a myriad of challenges, which leaders should strive to tackle. “My agenda is to fight poverty and improve the economy of the country,” he said. While asking the national and county governments to partner in advancing development, he said bad leadership resulted to wastage of resources. He entreated the residents to support his re-election bid saying: “I plead with a lot of respect we work together.” HECKLING Accompanying him were Deputy President William Ruto, National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale, Narok Governor Samuel Tunai and Emurua Dikirr MP Johana Ng’eno, who had a rough time addressing the Jubilee and CCM supporters who had thronged Dikirr Township for the rally. Mr Tunai was forced to cut short his speech after a brief address, after which he welcomed the President to the region. “Today we have our President here. I take this opportunity to welcome you on behalf of the county. This is a Jubilee zone, which overwhelmingly supported you in the last elections,” he said. But Mr Ruto, Mr Duale and Mr Ng’eno managed to address the crowd amid heckling. Jubilee supporters shouted down Mr Ng’eno while those belonging to Chama Cha Mashinani, which is headed by Bomet governor Isaac Ruto, jeered the Jubilee leaders. RE-ELECT UHURU Mr Ng’eno, who has been one of the critics of Jubilee leadership, told the President that his constituency supports him and are satisfied with his rule. He pleaded with the President to tarmac roads in the region. Mr Duale said the Jubilee government has good plans for Kenyans and asked them to re-elect the President come August 8, who will then hand over to Mr Ruto come 2022.  