Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero has tried to allay fears concerning credibility of ODM primaries and the misgivings that the party has preferred candidates. Dr Kidero said that all aspirants will have a fair shot at the party's ticket in the nominations that begin on April 13. "I want to reiterate what the party leader said that they are no special candidates or any preferred one. Every aspirant will be treated equally and let them not worry but instead engage the voters,” he said during a church service at Nairobi West Seventh Day Adventist Church. READ: Raila promises fair ODM primaries WINNING THE ELECTION The governor added that the National Super Alliance - the umbrella which ODM, ANC, Ford-Kenya and Wiper Democratic Movement are under - team of Nairobi region has developed elaborate strategies that will facilitate collaboration before and after the primaries; to make sure the coalition scoops majority positions. "We are working together as members of Nasa in Nairobi County and we have set up a team that will see us deliver the majority of seats starting from the member of county assembly to the governor and the president,” he said. NASA DOES NOT FOSTER VIOLENCEOn Nairobi Senator Mike Sonko's statement of possibility of joining the Opposition if he is rigged out of the Jubilee Party nominations for the governorship post, Dr Kidero said: "We will accept everybody who has the values and integrity that Nasa espouses." READ: Sonko threatens to join Nasa He scoffed at those who are opposed to the doling out of direct nomination tickets saying the step was informed on the fact that the aspirants had no opponents. READ: Raila gives free ride to 400 key aspirants With regards to the several instances of violence that have bludgeoned ODM, the Nairobi boss said Nasa does not condone chaos and perpetrators will be dealt with accordingly. READ: Chaos at Migori ODM meeting - VIDEO   NKAISSERY ON CHOPPING BLOCK However, he accused Interior Cabinet Secretary Joseph Nkaissery of bias when discharging his duties, by being engrossed on punishing Opposition leaders only. "I would like to tell Nkaissery to stop favouritism. We are still waiting for action to be taken on those who caused violence in Dagoretti South by brandishing guns, those who caused chaos in Eastleigh and the chaos that characterized Bomas meeting." READ: Arrest Jubilee leaders over Dagoretti chaos Furthermore, he castigated the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission for blocking prisoners from voting for leaders in all categories other than the presidency. PRISONERS' VOTES He said the decision was an affront to their rights. "The inmates are demanding to vote in the areas where they are serving their sentence. They need to be allowed to vote from MCA through to the president," he said when he paid a courtesy visit to Nairobi West Prison. He added that the county is in the process of signing a Memorandum of Understanding with the prison department regarding rehabilitation and repair works in schools, dispensaries, hospitals and estates.  