A few years ago, I wrote in this column what the newly installed president of our regional College of Surgeons said in a light vein at the beginning of his inaugural address in Harare. He did so because, like all good speakers, he wanted to hold our attention to the serious part of his speech by putting us in a happy receptive mood at the beginning. He told the story of a surgeon who received an urgent call one night from one of his patients. “My wife has developed acute appendicitis, according to our family doctor who saw her just now.” “Whoever has heard of a second appendix?” asked the surgeon. “I removed your wife’s appendix a few years ago.” “Surely you have heard of a second wife!” The patient retorted. Something similar in very different context happened to me a few years later. One night, I was rung by Dr Senabulya, a Ugandan GP settled in Nairobi since Idi Amin’s time. “I have a young lady here with me with acute appendicitis. I think that her appendix needs to come out.” Then to emphasise that time was of the essence, he added: “Janet is 16, doing her GCSE and needs to get back to school soon.” “Please send her to the hospital. I will arrange a bed for her and inform the Sister to inform me when she arrives,” I said. I was called a few minutes later, drove to the hospital, took Janet’s medical history, examined her, agreed with Dr Senabulya’s diagnosis, and took out an  angry looking swollen appendix. Being midnight, my family history was brief. “Parents alright?” I asked. “Yes.” “How many siblings?” “One sister and one brother,” Janet replied without elaborating; obviously, she was in pain. I remembered her case because after surgery, she shot up unexplained fever which worried me. It turned out that it was caused by mumps, which she was nursing while she developed appendicitis and which manifested in swelling on her face later. That unusual complication and its timing stuck in my mind. Two years after Janet left hospital, I was called by Dr Akwabi, medical officer at the university. “I have with me Philomena, a student from the department of economics with what looks like acute appendicitis. I would appreciate your opinion and would like you to take her appendix out if you agree with my diagnosis,” he said. “Please send her to Accident and Emergency,”  I advised. REMARKABLE LIKENESS I was rung by Sister in charge of A&E when Philomena arrived. As soon as I saw the patient, I rashly remarked: “You can’t be a case of appendicitis because I removed your appendix a couple of years back.” “You have a brilliant memory,” Philomena replied. “It was my identical twin, on whom you operated.” Then to prove her point, she exposed her tummy for me to examine. I examined her and concluded that she had acute appendicitis and removed it. As I was doing so, I said to my assistant: “Strange that this inflamed appendix looks remarkably like the one I removed from her identical twin.” As she was peering above her mask wondering why I made that odd comment, I added:. “I know that identical twins are predisposed to the same diseases but didn’t know that their inflamed appendices look the same too. If I had known, I would have taken a picture of Janet’s appendix then and Philomena’s now and published their case in one of the surgical journals.” “It would deserve a place in the British Journal of Surgery because I can’t recall a similar case published,” replied my assistant. It was in Philomena’s post-operative period that I learnt a lot about identical twins in general and her and Janet in particular. In small but regular doses, Philomena during her three days stay, informed me of how close the twins were.  “We are not only identical in appearance but we also wear the same clothes, like the same jewellery and items of food.” As I listened to her with astonishment, she added: “In school, in Shakespeare’s Comedy of Errors, we were cast as twins. While at the university, we even share and swap boyfriends.” “That’s dangerous,” I remarked. The chickens came to roost a year later when Janet was admitted under my care with abdominal pain. “I think she has incomplete intestinal obstruction due to post-operative adhesions,” her family doctor said. She was referring to complication of surgery on the abdomen when loops of intestine get stuck to each other after an operation and cause obstruction, usually relieved by stopping oral intake and giving intravenous fluids for nourishment. Sometimes, we place a tube in the stomach for hourly suction of the intestine to keep them empty. Surgery is done only as a last resort because it leads to more adhesions and more attacks of intestinal obstruction in the future. Amongst many, I asked Janet two pertinent questions. “What sort of pain is it?” “Colicky.” Typical of obstruction, I reckoned. “When was your last period?”  My second question. “They are very irregular,” she replied. Candidly, she added: “I can’t be pregnant because I always make sure that I have protected sex.” I was not sure of the diagnosis and with Janet’s assurance about not being pregnant, I ordered an X-ray of her abdomen. I did so against my better judgment and felt more guilty when it showed no evidence of intestinal obstruction. So I considered other reasons for colicky abdominal pain, one of which is threatened abortion and asked Janet “Do you mind if I order a pregnancy test on you?” “Not at all,” Janet replied. She was obviously more certain of her birth control method than I was. I was more surprised when it came positive and just to make a comment on the matter, I said: “In these matters, there are a few slips between the cup and the lip.” I realised after blurting it out how figuratively close to the situation my statement was! In the meantime, Janet was responding to anti-spasmodic injections. With a motive in mind, I asked her. “Do you know who the father is?” “Of course I do,” Janet replied. TWO FOR THE PRICE OF ONE “I need to see him,” I said. “As you know, we did an X-ray on you. Irradiation can be harmful to the foetus in early pregnancy and the gynaecologist I will refer you to might suggest a therapeutic termination and we might need the father’s permission.” “That’s okay,” she replied. “I will ask Salim to see you.” In due course, the young man came  and I acquainted him with the facts. He too was equally candid, seemed knowledgeable and said: “Please tell your gynaecologist colleague not to carry out an abortion for any reason other than the teratogenic effects of X-rays on the unborn baby.” He then took a long ponderous pose and threw a bombshell. “I suggest that you do a pregnancy test on Philomena as well.” As I kept looking at him with my mouth gaping wide open, he added: “I courted both sisters because I fancied them both and couldn’t choose between the two. They are so close and told me that they don’t mind sharing me. With that confession from them, I, a full blooded Arab-African, made the most of it because I was getting two for the price of one!” As I laughed hilariously, he repeated himself. “That’s why I suggest that you better do a pregnancy test on Philomena as well.” I asked. “What will you do if the test on Philomena comes positive too?” “Since I live in a society where polygamy is allowed and belong to a religion which accepts it, I would marry both of them,” Salim replied. “Going by past experience, which I have gathered while courting them, I know that the sisters would welcome the idea and would be happy to live as co-wives as long as I treat them equally in all respects which I am determined to do.” “You are a very greedy man!” I commented. It was Salim’s turn to laugh uproariously, at the end of which he asked: “May I ring Philomena and ask her to collect a request form for pregnancy test on herself from your secretary?” “If you promise to explain to her the reason,” I consented conditionally. The pregnancy test on Philomena came negative. Now I have an apology to make to my readers because, for the first time, I have to leave them hung in mid-air. I don’t know how the unlikely but happy triangle was resolved. All I know is that I referred Janet to my gynaecologist colleague because the final diagnosis on her was threatened abortion. She, in consultation with our psychiatrist and radiologist colleagues, carried out a therapeutic abortion on her, after doing serial ultrasounds on her and proving that the X-ray had seriously damaged the brain of the foetus. Janet did not keep any of her follow-up appointments. I believe that all the three actors in this drama realised the unconventionality of their relationship and did not want to keep in touch with somebody who was  privy to their dark secrets!  