The complete picture of the line-up of the contenders for various political seats at the August elections will unfold this weekend when political parties conclude nominations. However, definitive trends have emerged, even though the primaries were chaotic and shambolic. Big names and seasoned politicians have fallen and more are fated to go the same route at the General Election. CASUALTIESIn some counties, the entire cast of governor, senator and MPs has been outed. Given that securing a ticket of particular parties in some regions gives one an upper hand in the final contest, for most of them, the die is cast. Every election has major casualties. But the number seems to be rising every cycle. This time round, the voters are more agitated and the casualty list is likely to be longer. The outgoing national and county leaders were the pioneers of the 2010 Constitution. EQUITY History had offered them a rare chance to implement a new mode of governance anchored on devolution and dispersed powers. Specifically, the creation of counties in 2013 and dispersal of resources from the center to the grassroots was a radical transformation that sought to promote equity. On balance, positive changes have been realised in the counties. Even so, the citizens have been appalled by the level of waste, plunder and theft of the resources, which, if put into proper use, could have done wonders. END RHETORIC Governors and Members of County Assemblies have become wealthy and some arrogant, all of a sudden. On their part, several MPs and Senators simply vanished. The message is that voters can no longer be taken for granted. Those who think they have money, name recognition, party support or experience and can, therefore, fool voters and get their way through, are in for a rude shock. The political landscape is changing and the citizens are becoming more discerning and vengeful. Leaders must read the signs on the wall and change tack. Voters are maturing and are making demands; they want services, respect and accountability. Time is up for empty rhetoric and political sloganeering.  