Another aspirant has joined the long list of contenders for the Bahati parliamentary seat in Nakuru County. Hilda Muthoni Kimatta, a former member of the Business and Professional Women’s Club, is the only woman in a male-dominated contest for the Jubilee ticket that has so far attracted more than six hopefuls. She has said she is the best placed to send incumbent MP Kimani Ngunjiri to permanent political retirement in the August 8 polls. However, Mrs Kimatta must first overcome the tough hurdle of the Jubilee party primaries on April 21 that are expected to be hotly contested. She will battle it out with youthful aspirants, including 36-year-old Crispus Anthony Wathimba and 40-year-old Charles Mbui. Other seasoned politicians eyeing the seat include former MP Joseph Kamau Kimani, Peter Gutu, John “Honest” Mbugua and Dedan Mwendwa Gikwa. SECOND ATTEMPT “With free and fair elections, I’m ready to give my opponents a good run for their money,” said Mrs Kimatta, who is making a second attempt at the seat. She exuded confidence that she will win the primaries and become the first-ever woman MP in Bahati. Mrs Kimatta said the constituency has lagged behind in development due to bad leadership and unfair distribution of resources. “A better Bahati is my dream and hope as I will uphold transparency and accountability in the use of the CDF kitty,” said Mrs Kimatta. An expert in land and water management, Mrs Kimatta said that top on her to-do list is the development of infrastructure to enhance economic activities in the agriculture-rich region and providing clean water. Bahati is famous for the production of tomatoes and maize and is probably the only area of Nakuru County that receives rainfall almost throughout the year but lags behind in agriculture. “My focus will be in agribusiness, value addition and strategies for new markets for our produce,” said Mrs Kimatta, who is also a soil expert. She said she will use her 11 years’ experience as an agricultural officer to inject new ideas to boost food security in the region.  