Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua has presented a candidate to take on his political nemesis Johnson Muthama in this year's General Election. Aspirant Henry Kioko will potentially run against the lawmaker, who is the Machakos senator, on the ticket of Maendeleo Chap Chap, whose party leader is Mutua. Muthama has not had a strong challenger for the seat in the Wiper Democratic Movement - Kenya and he is expected to easily retain the ticket in the nomination later this month. Kioko, whose background is marketing and communications, must however brace himself for combative politics. In announcing his bid, Kioko said Muthama's frosty relationship with the governor had impaired service delivery, denying the county the all-important backing it needs from the Senate. “We have witnessed politics of provocation and incompetence from the incumbent senator in the role of overseeing our county Executive. I will l cultivate a relationship of trust, mutual respect and honesty,” he said. He said he was ready to take on the incumbent. “I get into this as David and we are confident of flooring Goliath,” he said. Muthama is from Kangundo while Mr Kioko a former chief executive at Security Group Africa hails from Machakos Town. This is seen as a major political battle between Muthama and Mutua who have had a rough relationship in the last four years. Muthama has also thrown his weight behind Mutua’s deputy Benard Kiala to send him packing. “Every experience is about solving problems and bringing people together and building consensus. That is what is missing in politics today and the type of leadership that Machakos needs. I think voters are pained by the dysfunction by the role of senate. They want change and I represent the change they need,” Kioko said. To appeal to the university students and the youth, he said he would push for the passage of bills to cushion them from harsh economic environment. “I will initiate a Bill that will keep student loans interest rates at the same level or even make the loans interest free,” he said.  