Incumbent Woman Representatives in the North Rift were humiliated by voters and sent packing in favour of new comers in the just concluded Jubilee Party primaries. In Nandi County, little known Tecla Songok Tum won by a landslide after she garnered 118,184 votes against the incumbent Zipporah Kering’s 28,480 votes. In Baringo County, Grace Kiptui was floored by Kenya Power director Susan Chesiyna. Mrs Chesiyna came second to Ms Kiptui in 2013. ‘COMMITTED SUICIDE’ Things started working against Ms Kiptui after claims emerged early this year that she tried to commit suicide after she was heckled in Kabartonjo during a visit to the region by deputy president William Ruto. Mrs Kiptui denied the suicide claims. Through a statement on her Facebook page then, Ms Kiptui told her followers that she was in good health and was only advised by her doctors to take a bed rest due to fatigue. Ms Chesiyna garnered 39,856 votes against Ms Kiptui’s 25,870 votes to emerge the winner. In West Pokot County, the incumbent Regina Nyeris defected to the Chama Cha Mashinani (CCM) prior to Jubilee Party primaries citing plans to rig her out. MORE ENLIGHTENED However, political pundits in the region rated her as a non-performer during her tenure and she was likely to lose the nominations. “The electorate are more enlightened in choosing their leaders no matter which political party you vie in,” said Jackson Chetodum, one of the voters. Many of the women MPs were shown the door with voters citing non-performance as one of the major factors. In Elgeyo-Marakwet County, Dr Susan Chebet was also shown the door by the unforgiving electorate. DORMANT LEADERS She was beaten by new comer Jane Jepkorir Kiptoo alias Chebaibai. “She was among the most dormant leaders we ever had in Elgeyo-Marakwet. No single day did we see her contribute in Parliament. She just had to go,” said James Korir, a resident from Iten. In Uasin Gishu County, the incumbent, Eusla Ngeny, opted for Soy parliamentary seat but she also lost to Caleb Kositany. Ms Ng’eny’s decision to opt for a parliamentary seat gave former Judiciary Registrar Gladys Boss Shollei an easy time to win the Jubilee ticket for the position with a landslide. She garnered more than 60,000 votes. Mrs Ng’eny has been accused of being among the most inactive legislator but has defended herself saying that she did a lot as a woman representative. “Among others issues, I empowered women in the county financially through prudent use of affirmative action fund,” said Ms Ng’eny.   Kabogo, Oburu and Buzeki among big names floored in the party nominations.