Ours is a parliamentary democracy by law. Public officers are, therefore, excluded from participating in politics. Cabinet secretaries, previously known as Cabinet ministers, are barred from dabbling in politics. They are appointed mainly from out of politics, vetted by Parliament and required to operate as technocrats heading ministries. Politicians appointed to such positions instantly resign before they take up those assignments. The reason behind this is to insulate public service from politics. Ministers and principal secretaries are freed from partisan politicking and accorded time to execute their duties impartially. The Constitution and related statues are unambiguous about this and any interpretation to the contrary is odious. Yet increasingly, we have seen ministers playing central roles at political rallies where Jubilee politicians are campaigning for re-election. Clearly, this is a violation of the law and must be stopped. Yesterday, State House Spokesperson Manoah Esipisu came out to support this illegality, sardonically arguing that the ministers were using those forums to explain government policies and account for their official duties. Kenyans are intelligent and some of these statements amount to either a mockery or sheer disrespect for the people. There are provisions through which Cabinet members account to the public. Chief among them is the President’s State of the Nation address. Second, Parliament calls ministers as and when necessary to explain to the public specific or general programmes or activities in their respective dockets. Nowhere in the Constitution was it envisaged that such would be done at high-octane and partisan political rallies, where guns are trained squarely on opponents. Both in letter and spirit, the Constitution directs that public officers must bring honour and dignity to the offices they serve in. When ministers begin to pander to partial political interest, inasmuch as they are appointed by political parties, they bring dishonour to their offices. Mr Esipisu’s spin is as ridiculous as it is unlawful and must be treated with the contempt it deserves. Cabinet secretaries and their appointer must obey the law; they must cease participating in political rallies.  