Some hotels in Coastal resort towns are fully booked thanks to the long Easter holiday which begins on Friday. The Easter bookings have been bolstered by domestic tourism in the wake of the ongoing school holidays. A spot check by the Nation established that local bookings were at 80 per cent while the rest are from regional and international tourists. A majority of the tourists are expected to be from Nairobi, Nakuru, Kisumu, Eldoret and Thika. In Mombasa, Travellers Beach Hotel marketing manager Wafula Waswa said the facility was fully booked. “We expect 80 per cent of locals to come,” he said. “Other guests are coming from Germany and the UK while some are from Uganda and Rwanda.” Compared to last year’s Easter bookings at 80 per cent, Mr Waswa said this year was better. He attributed the surge in Easter bookings to improved security in Mombasa. Heritage Hotels chief executive officer Mohamed Hersi said the Voyager Hotel had recorded 80 per cent guest numbers for the holiday with more than 50 per cent of the visitors being form Kenya. PrideInn Beach Resort general manager Imtyaz Mirza said the hotel had registered 95 per cent bookings for the Easter holiday. However, he added that during the holiday, the resort is expected to be packed to capacity as bookings were still trickling in. “Most of the bookings are from the domestic market as well as from neighbouring Tanzania, Rwanda, Uganda and Burundi,” Mr Mirza said. Sai Rock Beach Hotel general manager Robert Kiri said the hotel had 70 per cent bookings with more expected before Friday. In Diani, Baobab Beach Resort general manager Silvester Mbandi said the hotel was fully booked. He attributed the increase in bookings to the school holidays, the magnificent Diani beach and the warm weather which has attracted sun-seekers from Europe. Mr Mbandi said the hotel received bookings from various parts of the country and neighbouring Uganda, Tanzania and Rwanda. “We will also host some guests from Asian countries of China, Korea as well as from European countries,” he added. Diani Reef Beach Resort managing director Bobby Kamani said bookings at the hotel were at 80 per cent for Easter. The hotel is expected to be full during the holiday, he said. “During Easter, we shall host guests from across the East African region as well as from Europe and Asia,” Mr Kamani said. In Lamu, Kijani House Hotel proprietor Pierre Oberson said they had 70 per cent bookings for the holiday, and expected more tourists to book before tomorrow. Their guests are from the domestic market and international markets including France, UK, Italy, Sweden and Denmark. In Watamu, Garoda Beach Resort resident manager Daniel Mwita said the hotel had 40 per cent bookings for Easter, adding that he expected the number to go up increase before tomorrow. Kenya Association of Hotelkeepers and Caterers Coast executive officer Sam Ikwaye said bookings for hotels in Malindi and Watamu were averaging at between 40 and 60 per cent due to low number of international visitors.  