The rivalry between Busia Governor Sospeter Ojaamong and Funyula MP Paul Otuoma will take centre stage during ODM party primaries, with both aspirants expressing confidence in clinching the ticket on April 7. Governor Ojaamong dismissed Mr Otuoma, saying he does not have what it takes to defeat him. "Although I will be fighting for the ODM ticket first before facing other candidates at the ballot in August, I am optimistic of carrying the day. I don’t see much competition from my opponent," he said after a closed-door meeting of ODM aspirants at a hotel in Busia. If he loses, he said, he would support the victor. Mr Ojaamong defended the county elections board over integrity issues raised by Mr Otuoma, who expressed concern over its composition. "We have laid out procedures to conduct nominations. The board members were elected by the National Elections Board and some of us are meeting them for the first time. I am confident the board will conduct free and fair elections," he said. For his part, the legislature remained positive that the will of Busia people will prevail. He also criticised the incumbent for not fulfilling the pledges he made during campaigns in 2013. "Mr Ojaamong cannot hide anywhere after failing to deliver what he promised the people of Busia. It’s only constituents who will decide who the next governor will be, not party leader Raila Odinga that he is relying on," he said. At a separate meeting, the Jubilee Party vowed to win all the seats in the county to erode the perception that Busia is an Opposition zone. Secretary-General Julius Oboya said the party is targeting over 150,000 votes as their contribution to President Uhuru Kenyatta's re-election in August. "We have a team of credible candidates to win us all the seats. In the 2013 elections we managed two seats in Teso North and South and already Budalang'i constituency, which was once ODM's stronghold, is supporting Jubilee," he said after meeting hopefuls in Busia. Mr Oboya added that the party will follow its constitution during primaries, to be held between April 17 and 21. The party will name its county election board on Sunday.  