1.     How would you describe your style, in three words? Chic, unique and very me. 2.. Do you think there is such a thing as a distinctive Kenyan style? If you were to style a definitive Kenyan look, what would you absolutely have to include? No, with the many cultural influences we have, and that is excluding the external cultural influences, it is impossible to have just one style that would be Kenyan. It’s very hard. For a definitive Kenyan look - beads or brass. 3.. How long have you been running your vlog, and how often do you change your hair colour? My vlog has been online for two years now, but it has been a journey that started three-and-a-half years ago. I change my hair colour every three to four months. Is that a little bit too much? 4.. Why do you think people find it necessary to constantly have the discussion about what is more important, between arts or sciences? I think it is because everyone wants to feel like they are the superior ones. It shouldn’t even be a discussion. There’re important elements in science and in art, and neither is more important than the other because humanity needs them both to move forward. 5.. Does your poetry affect or influence your style at all, rather, what do you consider your style influences, influencers or muses? What I do is not influenced by the other, my crafts are entities on their own. I don’t even think I have muses, though I have a couple of people whose sense of style I really admire, but that is as far as it goes. My style is usually influenced by my mood and what I want to show off!  **** Hotspot Hunger Relief Concert More than three million Kenyans are facing starvation, and various companies and organisations are doing their bit to alleviate the suffering. Some of these organisations include the Kenya Red Cross, Fresh and More Kenya, Jamhuri Festival and the August 7th Memorial Park, who are putting on a concert to collect money and foods for these Kenyans. The concert itself will be held at the memorial park on 15th of April from 11am. Entrance is in form of food donations such as rice, flour, grains such as beans and ndengu, cooking oil and salt. Come and enjoy the sounds of Sage, Makadem and Abbih Nguma, among 40 other artists, for a great cause. ****** Blog review www.amorke.com Most people know who Liz Marami is – Kenya’s first female marine pilot. Over the weekends though, when she’s not working, she lets her style run free on her blog. Liz loves to be photographed while fabulously decked out, which is something that is very far removed from her job, but serves as a release and respite from work – as fashion is wont to do. She loves it so much, that she has been quoted saying she would be in the fashion industry, perhaps running an internationally recognised line showcasing African style and materials if she wasn’t a marine pilot. Check out her blog for fashion ideas, of course, but also for insight into the challenges of being a career woman in a male-dominated field, her heart and her story behind the scenes.  