Kenya Pipeline and Kenya Prisons teams will on Tuesday take on Bafia of Cameroon and University of Zimbabwe respectively in their final preliminary matches of the women's Africa Club Championship currently ongoing in Monastir, Tunisia. Should both of them win, they will come up against each other in an all-Kenyan quarterfinal, a situation that can only be prevented if unbeaten Pipeline lose to the university lads.Pipeline coach Japheth Munala however says that he will leave it for fate to decide the outcome of the game, although he admitted to some discomfort about meeting his Kenyan counterparts in the next stage. It has happened three times before, but I hope that fate will intervene this year. My team and Prisons came here as Kenyan representatives and we both aim to win gold this year. Losing the match on purpose is however out of the question. We shall tackle Bafia just like we did the other two teams so as to keep the momentum going, he said. Having beaten Rwanda Army and Sonatrach of Algeria by straight sets in the first two games in Pool C, Pipeline have already qualified for the tournament s quarter finals no matter the outcome of their contest against Zimbabwe. Prisons must however beat their Pool B opponents in order to advance.Their record at this stage is blemished by the 3-1 (25-14, 25-21, 18-25 and 25-16 ) defeat they suffered against defending champions Al Ahly of Egypt last week, although they later bounced back with straight set wins over Marsa (Tunisia) and Bejaia (Algeria) at the weekend. Prisons are endowed with an experienced team of players who include former captain Bracksides Agala, setter Jane Wacu and award-winning attacker Evelyn Makuto who all returned this year from a brief professional stint with French club Chamilieres. Regular club and national team libero Elizabeth Wanyama was axed from the team a fortnight ago, but Judith Tanui has proven a worthy replacement despite having missed out on international action for the last two years. The wardresses will be captained by ferocious attacker Evelyne Makuto while Triza Atuka will lead the Pipeline charges in the late night match.TUESDAY'S FIXTURESKenya Prisons v University Zimbabwe - 3pm8pm Kenya Pipeline v Bafia - 8pm email print email print