AS ABRAHAM WAS walking up Mount Moriah next to Isaac, he could not understand why God would ask him to sacrifice his son. It did not make sense. Isaac was the one Abraham had waited for, year after year, believing that God would fulfil his promise: “You will be the father of a great nation. All the nations of the earth will bless themselves in honour of your name. It is through Isaac that your name will be carried on.” God seemed to contradict himself by telling Abraham: “Take your son, your only child, Isaac, whom you love and go to the land of Moriah. There you shall offer him as a burnt offering on a mountain that I will show you.” It seemed all the more contradictory that God would stand by and do nothing while the Romans crucified Jesus Christ. The sense of contradiction became unbearable when the disciples heard Jesus cry out on the cross: “My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?” VICTORY FROM JAWS OF DEATH Here was the man who claimed to be the Son of God, crying out to his Father in heaven. He had walked on water, gave sight to the blind and raised the dead. Here was the King of the Jews who had entered Jerusalem amid shouts of joy: “Hosanna to the Son of David. Blessings on the one who comes in the name of the Lord!” When Christ cried out on the cross, the only answer at that moment—was silence. The Pharisees felt vindicated. They had judged the carpenter’s son from Nazareth to be a false prophet. They had accused him of blasphemy. They went to the top of Calvary and said to his face: “You called yourself the Son of God. Come down from the cross and we will believe you.” They smiled knowingly as Jesus died like a criminal together other criminals. They walked home with a sense of relief. They must have been thinking: “We have finally rid ourselves of this pest. How dare he condemn us before the people, calling us whitewashed tombs full of dead men’s bones! What goes around, comes around. He condemned us. We condemned him. We won. He lost. We’re alive. He’s dead.” Are you a Christian? Pay no attention to what the world calls victory and what the world calls defeat. This is why we celebrate Friday and call it “Good”. If you want to be a true disciple, expect contradiction. God will give his answer. The resurrection will come. But only after you have kept faith in midst of suffering. Like Jesus, our Lord and Master, you, too, must be ready to say to God: “Not my will but yours be done.”  