Security agencies have been placed on terror alert during Easter festivities and police wants the public to report suspicious activities so as to prevent attacks. A report shared among the agencies and seen by the Nation says nine men on police list of wanted terrorists may either have sneaked into Kenya from Somalia or are in final stages of planning to do so. They are Habib Karongo alias Jureyj, Juma Were, Mohamed Tajir, Abdullahi Jarso Kotola, Gufu Tari Gufu and Fuad Abubakar Manswab. Others are Abubakar Abdikadir Abubakar, Issa Abdalla Kauni and Ahmed Said Omar. Their photographs were also shared among law enforcement agencies. MEMBERS EXECUTEDPlans to launch attacks in the country were discovered after some of them contacted their relatives seeking help to sneak back after years on the run. In appealing to the public to give information, Police spokesman George Kinoti said “their efforts have in the past enabled security agencies to foil numerous attempts by terrorists to infiltrate the country”. He said: “We wish to remind Kenyans that the threat of terrorism remains high, hence must all times be vigilant particularly in political party activities such as rallies and processions. "These also includes places of worship, bars and restaurants, bus termini and railway stations and other places patronised by big crowds." The report also shows that some Kenyans within the Al-Shabaab ranks have been fleeing the terrorists’ camps after some their countrymen were executed on suspicion of spying for Kenya Defence Forces.The report identifies those executed as Ahmed Yusuf Hassan and Ahmed Nur Abdi Osoble, who were killed by a firing squad at Buq Aqable in Somalia’s Hiraan region, on March 27. COMMANDER KILLEDJared Omambia and Faraj Abdulmajid, also Kenyans, were executed last year alongside four other foreign Shabaab militants after they faced similar accusations. Kenyan troops using helicopter gunships and heavy artillery have increased operations against Shabaab camps near the Kenyan border causing devastating damages. A senior Shabaab commander Bashe Nure Hassan was killed together with one of his lieutenants on April 8. READ: KDF soldiers kill Al-Shabaab commander READ: KDF kill 31 Shabaab terrorists in raid Two days after, 15 other terrorists were killed after Kenyan troops stormed their camp near Catamaa, about 104 kilometres from the border town of Elwak. Mr Kinoti further asked Kenyans to cooperate with security officers who may be required to heighten surveillance. He added: “We ask Kenyans to be fully conscious of their surroundings and to oblige to security checks at malls, public service vehicles, places of worship, hotels and other places.” Mr Kinoti assured the public that police would be on standby round the clock to receive information, including through toll free telephone lines 999, 911 and 112.  