What s so special about Makerere? asked the Reverend John Sila, when we recently met in Yala. The gentleman of the cloth is the Vicar of Saint Paul s, in Yala, not in London, and certainly not Saint Paul s Cathedral in Namirembe, Uganda.Domed like its London counterpart, Uganda s Saint Paul s sits atop one of the famed Nine Hills of Kampala, and directly faces Makerere, which also derives its name from yet another of the hills. If he had been Vicar of Namirembe s Saint Paul s, the Rev Sila would certainly have known all about Makerere.Anyway, I gave Vicar Sila the standard answer that Makerereans give to inquiries about their school s magic: Well, it s Makerere. This coded answer is shorthand for a whole library of East Africa s education history. Speeding towards its hundredth year of existence, Makerere epitomises the region s higher education and all that goes with it.In the direct line of descent, Makerere is the alma mater of Julius Nyerere, Milton Obote, Jaramogi Oginga Odinga, Ali Hassan Mwinyi, Mwai Kibaki and Ben Mkapa. Does it get any bigger than that?But even in our humbler academic world, the names of stalwarts like Wilbert Chagula, the first African Principal of Dar es Salaam, Josephat Karanja, Joseph Maina Mungai, David Rubadiri, Bethwell Ogot, Micere Mugo and Ngugi wa Thiong o readily leap to mind among the products of Makerere. Ngugi has been writing tenderly about the old place in some of his recent recollections.POTENTIAL COMPETITIONAnyway, to my interlocutor I added, as I often do, that I am not a very impartial or reliable source, as I am not an original Makererean. Though raised and reared within hearing distance of the chimes of its Main Building Tower clock, my pedigree is UDSM (Dar), which is arguably the best university in the world. I only landed at Makerere as a wandering graduate scholar.Be that as it may, Makerere is currently on a search for a new CEO, a Vice-Chancellor. The current VC, Prof John Ddumba Ssentamu, has indicated that he might not be interested in a renewal of his contract, which expires later this year. This has set in motion a vigorous rush of activities to try and find a successor.The process starts with a number of people, usually those already within the administration, expressing their interest in the job. Then, officially, the post is advertised and the aspirants submit their applications and hefty CVs. The University Council then appoints a Search Committee that vets the applications and shortlists the most impressive applicants, who would eventually be invited for interviews before the Council. These interviews are themselves a phenomenon to behold, as the candidates, professors all, are seasoned orators, with striking skills of eloquence and the powers to expound and pontificate.The names of potential candidates are still emerging, but the competition this time is likely to be keener than usual, as the new VC is likely to lead Makerere into the centenary celebrations in 2022, that is if he or she serves the expected two terms. I have said elsewhere that I would be delighted if such a person turned out to be an academic sister, the first-ever female VC at Makerere.The intriguing point, however, is why Professor Ddumba Ssentamu, who has served only one term, since 2012, should not be interested in renewing his contract. The simple and brutal answer is that the seat has become almost intolerably hot. Nearly all of Ddumba Ssentamu s five-year tenure has been marked by prolonged and crippling strikes.If it was not students rioting over the increase in fees and schedules of payment, it was the non-academic staff striking over wages and working conditions. If it was not those, then it was the academic staff laying down their tools over unpaid allowances and unfulfilled promises of salary raises. But even these were only part of a spreading malaise throughout the institution.I told you some time ago of senior staff members in naked confrontation with their colleagues over perceived maladministration in some organs of the university. More seriously, it has been discovered that there might have been some disturbing manipulations of computer records in some sensitive academic areas.These problems are not necessarily of the Vice-Chancellor s making. Indeed, most of them stem from structural and administrative complications that have been creeping upon Makerere and other public universities over the last few decades. At the heart of these is the insistence that, because these institutions are government-founded, they should be directly controlled by government in all their operations, including the finances.PHENOMENAL GROWTHOf the well over 40,000 students at Makerere, for example, the overwhelming majority are private, fee-paying individuals. The government s contribution to the tuition costs of the university is, thus, almost negligible. Yet government insists that it should have control over all the fee structures of the institution.Similarly, the assumption that government should control the salaries and wages structures at Makerere the way it does for civil servants is unrealistic. The demand for competent professors and lecturers is very high. Makerere is in fierce competition for them with the growing number of tertiary institutions, both private and public, in Uganda and in the East African region as a whole.Equally problematic is the phenomenal growth of the student population in the face of the very limited space and facilities available at Makerere. Much as the old school would like to give every deserving candidate a chance, it just has to draw a line at what it can cope with in terms of structures, equipment and personnel.Some people were amused recently, for example, when Makerere had to carry out a headcount of its student population. Many could not understand how, in this age of super-fast computers, the Hill did not know exactly how many scholars it was hosting. But that is just another symptom of being overwhelmed.So, for those who wish to lead Makerere into its second century, the door is open. But it will certainly not be a piece of cake. email print email print