Kenya Rugby Union (KRU) Board will take unspecified action against Kenya Cup champions Kabras Sugar for withdrawing their forward Dan Sikuta from Kenya Sevens team.Sikuta alongside Kenya Harlequin winger William Ambaka failed to travel with Kenya Sevens team that left the country on Monday dawn for Hong Kong Sevens planned for this weekend.Ambaka is reportedly in New Zealand to pen up a new professional deal with unnamed club in the country. He is due to undergo his medical examination with the team on Tuesday.KRU chairman Richard Omwela disclosed that while they were aware of Ambaka s case, Kabras Sugar failed to inform them on time over the unavailability of Sikuta.Omwela said they will have Ambaka flown to Hong Kong immediately after his medical test but the board will consider what action to take against Kabras Sugar after refusing to release Sikuta. Kabras should not have allowed Sikuta to attend the camp in Mombasa if they knew he won t be travelling for the World Series, said Omwela. Ambaka s case was urgent and we wish him best of luck as he chase his dream in New Zealand. Director of Rugby at KRU Thomas Odundo disclosed that Head Coach Innocent Simiyu will advise them on the replacements he would like effected upon arrival in Hong Kong. Simiyu still has 11 players at his disposal for the Hong Kong leg but we can have two or one players leave by Friday, said Odundo.Kenya is up against South Africa, Canada and France in Pool B at Hong Kong Sevens before moving on to Singapore Sevens the following weekend where they will be defending their title. It came as a big blow and surprise that means we have expedite our pipeline. We believe got the capacity produce players that will cover up, said Odundo.Sikuta played for Kabras Sugar in their 21-18 victory against Resolution Impala Saracens on Saturday, a win that put them through to Kenya Cup semi-finals. email print email print Ambaka is reportedly headed for professional play in New Zealand. President Uhuru Kenyatta&#039;s eldest sister died in Nairobi on Wednesday. Prominent lawyer says DCI boss Ndegwa Muhoro has told officers to eliminate him over land row.