As campaigns for the Uasin Gishu governor’s race heat up, one man has surprised many by choosing to ride on a bicycle to reach out to the electorate. Solomon Kiptarbei Maritim, 31, will battle it out with other political heavyweights, among them incumbent Jackson Mandago and prominent businessman Zedekiah Bundotich Kiprop, aka Buzeki. The Nation team caught up with Mr Maritim on the campaign trail at a roadblock on the outskirts of Eldoret on Friday. What strikes you when you talk with him is that this is a determined man with the optimism to succeed in life against all odds. “I’m all ready to serve you better. I feel I’ve the requisite skills. Please give me your votes during the nomination so that we can move this county forward,” Mr Maritim told a crowd at a campaign in Eldoret last week. If elected, Mr Maritim said, he will ensure that all people have access to the National Hospital Insurance Fund (NHIF) and affordable health care.   LARGE CROWDS He said he will also ensure that all tribes in the county co-exist peacefully. “A Maritim governorship will ensure that everyone can carry out their business without any form of harassment or discrimination,” said Mr Maritim, a father of two. “I’ve already paid the nomination fee and I am ready to face my opponents in the ballot. The people should be allowed to choose the kind of leaders they want. "The nominations should be devoid of any political interference,” added Mr Maritim, who has called for issue-based campaigns. Indeed, the aspirant has been attracting large crowds wherever he goes atop his old bicycle fitted with his posters, winning the hearts of some of them in the process. “It is time we elect such ordinary people who understand the plight of the common man as opposed to moneyed guys who will abandon us after election,” said Joseph Kimuyu.   UNIVERSITY GRADUATE Some well-wishers have been offering him refreshments and other pleasantries during his campaigns. “We will only elect people with ideas to transform our lives, not small money,” said Juliet Akinyi, a trader in the county. Mr Maritim, who hails from Tairi Mbili in Uasin Gishu County is a graduate of Moi University, where he studied business management, accounting option, before working briefly as an accountant in Nandi County and later deciding to try his hand in politics. But how will he cover the expansive county during the campaigns using a bicycle? Mr Maritim had this to say: “Even if I sleep in my relatives’ homes, I will cover the whole county. Even if it means using public transport at some point. "I thank my friends who have been campaigning for me at the grassroots. My friends in the media have also been so supportive,” said the gubernatorial aspirant.  