Nasa will today unveil a line-up which comprises the presidential candidate, his deputy and posts of premier cabinet secretary and his two deputies. The negotiated agreement seen by the Nation reveals that the coalition’s presidential candidate, once elected into office, will delegate the day-to-day running of the government to the holder of the powerful office of the premier cabinet secretary who will also be in charge of the state department of Internal Security and administration of the national government. One of the two deputy premier cabinet secretaries will be in charge of the state department of Public Service and the Foreign Affairs ministry while the other will oversee the state department of Devolution and the Treasury. The five principals – Raila Odinga, Kalonzo Musyoka, Musalia Mudavadi, Moses Wetang’ula and Isaac Ruto – spent the better part of Tuesday and yesterday tying up loose ends to the agreement at an undisclosed location within Nairobi. Close aides to some of the principals said Wednesday’s meeting started at around 10 am and dragged on until evening. PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE It was not until early Wednesday afternoon that the five agreed on the presidential candidate, the running mate and the offices to be occupied by the remaining three principals. The power-sharing agreement recognises that whoever is picked as the presidential candidate will only be first among equals and will involve his co-principals in the formation of the Nasa government in the event that they trounce Jubilee during the August 8 election. The agreement states that if elected to office, the president shall not make any decision without agreeing with co-principals, beginning with the formation of government. All executive positions will be shared, with the president getting less portfolio appointments, the agreement further states. In forming the new government, the president and his co-principals will ensure that they conform to the Constitution which requires that the national executive reflects regional and ethnic diversity of Kenyans. ORGANISE CABINETThe presidential candidate, if elected to office, will rely on the law which sets out his functions and powers and confers on him the discretion to establish, structure and organise the Cabinet. “Upon formation of government, the president shall delegate the running of government to the premier cabinet secretary in accordance and as provided for in the Constitution which requires the president to exercise executive authority with the assistance of the deputy president and cabinet secretaries,” it states. Speaking at Uhuru Park, the venue of Thursday’s rally, three of the five co-chairmen of the Nasa Coordinating Committee said the rally will change Kenya’s history. LARGE NUMBERS Tongaren MP Eseli Simiyu, Nambale MP Sakwa Bunyasi and Isiolo deputy governor Mohamed Guleid called on Kenyans to turn up in large numbers. “We have come to inspect the grounds where we will have this major event tomorrow (Thursday). We are expecting over a million people at these grounds tomorrow (Thursday),” Dr Simiyu said. He added that many Kenyans were by yesterday travelling to Nairobi by road to attend the unveiling of the Nasa presidential candidate. “We have dignitaries coming from all over the world, within Africa and beyond, and we have dignitaries coming from international organisations to attend this major political event of the year and of the decade,” he added. Mr Bunyasi said whatever happens today will be written in Kenya’s history books. “Tomorrow (Thursday) will be a game-changer indeed and we are all very hopeful. So, I hope everybody out there will turn up tomorrow at Uhuru Park,” he said.   National Assembly Minority Leader Francis Nyenze told the Nation that the meeting is on.