I m grateful that after eight years of being in the game the last two years have seen phenomenal growth in my career, not only at home but all over the continent. When I started acting in 2008, the industry had no structure. There were no film or acting programs available in the country then and most of us figured things out through trial and error. It shouldn t be that way, but things are changing for the better. The most exciting moment this year so far would have be when I hosted the red carpet for the Africa Magic Viewers Choice Award 2017, AVMCA. To meet and interact with the very best actors and filmmakers and stake holders in the African film industry was a big honour. To also hand out the award for Best East African Film, to a Kenyan winner, Kati Kati was super special to me. I ve just completed filming the fifth season of MTV Shuga which was shot in South Africa. I m just grateful to be a part of a story that resonates with young people across the continent, and tells our story. Shuga is free to air and is broadcasted to over 76 million homes worldwide. I am also working on another series called This Is It. Season two is currently in pre-production. The first season is even available on YouTube. We ve garnered about 1.5 million views and I m excited to announce that the show will soon air on NTV. It is a Pan African Rom/Com (romantic comedy) series about a young couple experiencing their first six months of marriage. Definitely worth watching. HOME IS BESTMy team is currently in talks with a South African production house to have me feature in a film shot in South Africa, I m keeping my fingers crossed that the deal will fall through. My focus at the moment is to help raise the standard of the film industry as well as giving back to it by doing short films and projects of passion with the new crop of actors and film crew. I am also very passionate about fashion, more specifically in uplifting our industry and empowering fashion designers. Africa is where it s at right now and the world has realised that, fortunately and unfortunately. A lot of our ideas are being borrowed and replicated in the West, and then being sold back to us. Case in point, the choker which has been a part of the Maasai culture since time immemorial. I want to work with both upcoming and established designers to showcase their work and help them get the exposure that they need. I am the brand ambassador for a sports betting company called Cheza Cash as well as for South African Airways Voyager, SAA Voyager. I am very privileged to be amongst the few actors that have partnered with corporates. Home is best, which is why I wouldn t consider moving to another country. As I said, my priority right now is to help shape the industry so that actors don t feel the need to leave the country. A lot of young actors and actresses today aspire to leave the country to pursue their dreams, and I think that if we built the industry here they would be happy to stay. Being voted as one of the 100 most influential young Kenyans is a pretty big deal for me. It s an honour and I just thank the body that was involved in the nomination process.The most refreshing thing that has happened is the support that I have received here at home from my peers, fans and the stakeholders of the film industry. I m not dating at the moment (Laughs) I ve learned to keep my personal life out of the limelight from my past relationships, not everybody wants the best for you. Additionally, it s important to protect the ones who mean the most to you. Don t put him/her up on the gram (Instagram) unless you re sure that they are the one. I work out four times a week and have also taken to eating healthy. Ones physique is an important factor in this industry, which means you have to take care of yourself. TRIAL AND ERRORI wear my beard with pride. I grew a really big beard for Shuga for my role as Leo, who was running away from the issues in his life. I felt that the beard represented the phase he was in. Generally, my hair/ beard change depending on the character I am playing. I m an introvert. I mostly stay in the house, apart from the few times I step out to hang with my squad. On a free day, you ll find me in the gym, online doing research on film or just on social media, visiting my boys, my apartment or my parents place. I like spending my free time with them. I didn t go to film school. I basically learnt on the job through trial and error. My favourite hangout joint is Arbor Place on James Gichuru Road in Lavington. My favourite food is a chicken wrap with a side of garden salad. My favourite drink is an iced caramel macchiato. I like comedies. I just finished watching David Chappelle s new standup. I also like all Quentin Tarantino movies, none has ever failed me. (Laughs) I read a lot of blogs. email print email print