County governments will receive an additional Sh21 billion to improve health care. This follows the signing of an agreement between the Council of Governors, the World Bank and Danida to boost services in the 47 regional governments. The focus over five years will be on reproductive, maternal, newborn, child and adolescent health, the governors’ secretariat said in a statement Thursday. The money will go to counties through a special account at the Central Bank. The signatories will be chief officers of finance and health. MATERNAL CARE Each county will also designate a focal person, accountant and an internal auditor, and provide a budget approved by the county assembly that is inclusive of the funds. “The project will be for development and enhancement of health care in Kenya and not for paying remuneration and benefits to health workers,” said the statement. The funds add to the billions of shillings sent to the regional governments to improve health care. For instance, in the 2017/18 budget, the devolved units received Sh4.3 billion for free maternal health and Sh4.5 billion for leasing medical equipment. In addition, 11 Level Five hospitals are to share Sh4 billion and another Sh900 million compensation for user fees. REDUCED DEATHSAccording to the county bosses, the regional governments have greatly improved services in the last four years. “Maternal deaths and infant mortality rates have fallen quickly, proof that free maternity works,” the statement signed by chairman Peter Munya said. It added: “The medical equipment on which nearly every county has played a part has given Kenyans access to life saving screenings for cancer and other diseases.” Mr Munya said counties had given priority to primary health care and improvement of centres, leading to a drop of up to 39 per cent in infant deaths per 1,000 live births. “In 2012, there were 8,466 health centres and dispensaries. We have increased this to 10,032 and invested heavily in incubators,” he said. However, he said when goodwill for the success of devolution has come in short supply, there is a problem in funding.  