Party nominations begin in earnest next week. But we are appalled with the escalating cases of violence across the country. Yesterday, at least one person was killed in violent confrontation between supporters of two contestants for the Busia governor’s seat. Early this week, violence broke out in Migori County and left scores injured as supporters of political rivals descended on each other, throwing a planned party meeting into total chaos. Previously, chaos was witnessed in Nairobi, Murang’a and Nakuru arising from disagreements from rivals seeking their party’s nominations. We have said before and we repeat; elections are not a matter of life and death. Politics becomes meaningless when it is reduced to a vicious contest where people lose lives and limbs. Democracy is about persuasion, not coercion. Voters have to be convinced, not forced to support any politician. PUNISH TROUBLEMAKERS And it is the duty of politicians to pursue peaceful and issue-based campaigns. They have a duty to rein in their rogue supporters. Violence as a means to power negates the principle of democracy. It disenfranchises people as it creates fear. Leaders hell-bent on getting their way through brute force cannot be trusted with the instruments of power. The onus of peaceful primaries rests on parties and their leaders. It is incumbent upon them to instil discipline and punish wayward members. Parties need preventive measures to forestall violence and when they occur, enforce stiff penalties. In law, the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission has a mandate to oversee party primaries. CREDIBLE POLLS But it has advisedly avoided doing that for fear of conflict of interest. Even so, the commission still has to monitor how the parties conduct their primaries, and that involves checking what happens even before the actual nominations. Fair and credible election is determined not by what happens on the ballot day but also the circumstances leading to it. When the conditions are as frightful, as they are increasingly becoming, then credibility is undermined. Parties must discipline leaders implicated in violence. At the same time, the security agencies and IEBC must take action. We must avert quick descent to chaos as nominations approach.  