Additional events have once again been added to this year s Easter Invitational Golf Tournament also known as the Tannahill Shield that marks its 93rd year at Royal Nairobi this weekend.They are the Junior Easter Tournament, won last year by Muthaiga Golf Club, and the Mixed Foursomes, which is open to all Amateur golfers in the country. The main event, the Tannahill Shield, a premier inter-club competition inaugurated in February 1924 by the late Arthur C. Tannahill of the Royal Nairobi Golf Club is set for Friday.This is an amateur golf tournament created to provide an opportunity for upcoming amateur golfers to sharpen their golfing skills whilst enjoying the company of other competing golfers.Playing in the tournament is strictly by invitation to nine participating clubs mostly from Nairobi and representative clubs from Western Kenya and Mombasa Golf Club. This year, the following clubs will grace the tournament: Muthaiga, Karen, Sigona, Limuru Countr, Railway, Western Kenya, Vet Lab, Mombasa and the host, Royal Nairobi Golf Club. The format as usual remains foursomes match play over 18 holes with each team consisting of six male players made of three pairs from each club facing off.In this format of play, golfers compete in teams of two, using only one ball per team, and taking alternate shots until the hole is completed.There will be two rounds tomorrow and the final round on Sunday morning.The team that amasses the most points over the three days is awarded the coveted Tannahill Shield while the one with the least is relegated and the slot given to another deserving club for the following year s event.It is worth noting Royal Nairobi Golf Club won the shield in 2014, 2015, 2016 and club captain Charles Sirkal Omondi says Royal is all set to defend its title. During this Easter weekend, we will ensure that there is adequate security on the golf course, first Aid services, comfort facilities, food and beverages points and children playing areas, Omondi added. This year the event has received the support of Jamii Telkom, AAR Healthcare, Apex Still, Kenya Nuclear Electricity Board, Coca Cola and KenGen among others. Of the participating teams, Muthaiga which has dominated the event for years, looks strong having recalled its senior players like Kumar Dhall, Rajesh Bhabra and Evans Vitisia as well as some of the country s top amateurs like Jeff Kubwa, John Gitonga and Neer Chandaria. Royal s team includes Kenneth Bollo, Jay Sandhu, Dennis Saikwa and Bo Siera. LADIES IN ACTIONHowever, some of the teams like Railway will miss two key players Alfred Nandwa and Samuel Njoroge currently in Zambia with the national team while Vet Lab will miss Edwin Mudanyi though those players may join their clubs on the final day round on Sunday. Away from Royal, Kenya Railway Golf Club will host the annual Ladies Invitation event which takes place in the Easter Weekend. This year, the event being sponsored by Geminia Insurance, has attracted over 100 ladies who will be battling it out for a number of prizes being offered. Railway Lady captain Joyce Gikunda says a lot will be at stake during the event. Among the ladies drawn at Railway include immediately past Kenya Ladies Golf Union (KLGU) chairman Mary Chebukati, veteran lady golfer Florence Maina, Wanjiru Karume and Sarah Hoare among others. email print email print Zambia will now meet defending champions South Africa in the final.