A fresh political split is slowly emerging among the Somali community in Isiolo over the choice for the county’s gubernatorial candidate. A group of elders led by their chairman Mohamed Ismail supports the candidature of Senator Mohamed Kuti for the post but another faction led by vice chairman Abdulkadir Shariff maintains that at no time did they agree to support him. The senator has picked Dr Abdi Ibrahim Issa from the community as his running mate after what he says is an endorsement from the Somali Council of Elders and extensive deliberations with those in political and professional circles. But on Monday, the group led by Mr Shariff maintained their hard-line stance saying they would not be coerced into supporting specific candidates. “Our community has rallied its support behind Dr Kuti during the last three general elections, twice as a Member of Parliament and once as a Senator but have nothing to show for it. We will not support him for a fourth time,” declared Mr Shariff at a press conference in Isiolo Town. NUMBERS The official maintained that Somalis have the numbers to front their own gubernatorial candidate and said they will scrutinise all candidates before declaring whom to support. In the current administration under Governor Godana Doyo, the Somalis are represented by Deputy Governor Mohammed Guleid who has also denied claims that they have resolved to rally behind Dr Kuti’s bid. Mr Guleid, who is in the race to be governor on a Chama Cha Mashinani ticket, said elders are still deliberating on the matter and will soon make public their stand on the matter. As the numbers stand now, no single community can singly elect their own to any of the positions that will be contested. NEGOTIATE Political pundits suggest that leaders in the county should make attempts to negotiate to share key positions as a way of building trust among the communities as has been the case in previous elections. While there have been attempts to negotiate and share positions, nothing concrete has come out of such efforts. With the multi-billion shilling Lamu Port-South Sudan-Ethiopia Transport (Lapsset) Corridor infrastructural developments almost complete, the county is looking to the future with a lot of positive expectations. If elected, Dr Kuti says he will spearhead cohesion among the five communities in the region and pledged to form an inclusive government. He will fight it out for the Jubilee Party ticket with Governor Doyo, who is banking on his administration’s development record to seek re-election. Other candidates in the governor’s race are Adan Kabelo (ODM), Hussein Golicha (Kanu), Abdul Bahari (Jubilee) and Anwar Kassam (Maaendeleo Chap Chap).   Turkana community's large numbers in Isiolo regarded as important factor in elections.