Funyula MP Paul Otuoma has asked the Orange Democratic Movement, to hand him the ticket for the Busia seat and disqualify Governor Sospeter Ojaamong whose win was nullified on Friday. Dr Otuoma said repeating the nomination would be rewarding Mr Ojaamong, who should be punished for the rigging in his strongholds . My opponent committed electoral malpractices, including publishing malicious stories that I had defected to Jubilee, he said in a letter to the party s National Elections Board. Dr Otuoma accused the board of ignoring his complaints. I am embarrassed as the vice chairman of ODM to be subjected to an injustice brazenly committed with impunity, he said. HAND CERTIFICATEDr Otuoma s assertions were repeated by members of his secretariat, who gave ODM 48-hours to hand their boss the certificate. The Funyula MP garnered 63,752 votes against Mr Ojaamong s 92,358. READ: ODM annuls nomination results for Busia governor's seatOn Sunday, Dr Otuoma s secretariat chairman Peter Odima said the team would consult voters on the next course of action. We are ready to make Ojaamong our running mate, he said.However, Mr Ojaamong insisted that he won fairly, saying the new line-up would deliver victory for the Orange party. People have been spreading lies that Busia is burning. There are no protests in our cosmopolitan county, he said at a press conference in Busia Town.PROSECUTE RETURNING OFFICERMeanwhile, Mr Sammy Weya, a politician and election observer has called for the prosecution of the returning officer. The party should take action against Justice Vitalis Juma instead of postponing the primaries, he said.In related reports, Gem MP Jakoyo Midiwo faulted ODM for not giving the Busia governor ticket to the Funyula MP. Mr Midiwo said Dr Otuoma should not be subjected to repeat nominations.He said the party was setting a bad precedent by failing to discipline Mr Ojaamong for interfering with the process that saw questionable results from his strongholds .The Gem lawmaker said the party NEB was to blame for the shambolic nominations in Busia County, adding that the same could be replicated elsewhere if composition of the county elections boards was not changed. email print email print