Will AFC Leopards finally hand leaders Posta Rangers their first defeat of the 2017 SportPesa Premier League season?This is the big question as surprise leaders Posta host wounded Leopards at Afraha Stadium in Nakuru on Saturday in one of the nine round eight matches set for this weekend.Champions Tusker will be away to Muhoroni Youth in Muhoroni on Saturday while 15-time winners Gor Mahia battle Mathare United on Sunday in Thika.The Sammy Pamzo Omollo-led Posta will welcome Leopards, who are reeling from their frustrating 1-0 loss to Sofapaka on Wednesday, hoping to extend their unbeaten start to the season to eight matches.Omollo, who won the league title with Tusker in 2011, believes the high stakes clash will offer his charges an opportunity to prove their mettle against the big boys as the league gathers momentum. We are not bothered by our unbeaten run. We are not really focusing on it but rather the results of each game we play, the former Sony Sugar coach, whose side is one point above second-placed Gor Mahia, said. Leopards are a tough side with good players and we know that it is going to be a tough match, added Omollo, whose side has only conceded one goal in their opening seven league matches. Atudo (Joackins) and Luke (Ochieng) have been solid at the back, but we have to give credit to other players and the goalkeeper for their collective defensive responsibility. Posta will welcome winger Edwin Mwaura back into their fold but defender Charles Odette yet again misses out with injury.For Leopards coach Stewart Hall, the return of striker Paul Mungai Kiongera after a three-week lay-off offers his team more options in attack.Hall told Nation Sport that his charges are ready to battle Posta but was quick to point out that they are still a work in progress. We received some good news this morning that Kiongera is fit to play tomorrow which is a big relief for us as we have been struggling with one fit striker, said Hall. We will try and do our best in Nakuru against them (Posta). We respect them because they are the league leaders but the match is very important for us. They are a good side defensively and we know that because we played them during the preseason and they looked really compact but we have to create more chances so that we can have a big chance of winning. In Thika, Gor Mahia will be without suspended midfielder Ernest Wendo as they aim to collect their sixth win of the season when they battle Mathare.Gor could start the match four points behind leaders Posta Rangers, should the mail men win their tie against Leopards on Saturday. Mathare will be without head coach Francis Kimanzi, who is serving a month-long suspension for misconduct. In Muhoroni, Tusker welcome midfielder Hashim Sempala after the Ugandan missed their 2-1 win over Nakumatt on Wednesday through suspension. FIXTURESSaturdayNzoia Sugar v Sony Sugar 3pm Sudi StadiumPosta Rangers v AFC Leopards 3pm Afraha StadiumChemelil Sugar v Kariobangi Sharks 3pm AwasiMuhoroni Youth v Tusker 3pm MuhoroniSundayGor Mahia v Mathare United 2pm Thika Municipal StadiumThika United v Western Stima 4.15pm Thika Municipal StadiumUlinzi Stars v Zoo Kericho 3pm Afraha StadiumMondayNakumatt v Kakamega Homeboyz 2pm MachakosSofapaka v Bandari 4.15pm Machakos email print email print