Nakuru Governor Kinuthia Mbugua on Friday lost Jubilee ticket for governor to Lee Kinyanjui. Mr Kinyanjui, the former chairman of the National Transport and Safety Authority (NTSA) and a former assistant minister in the Mwai Kibaki government, garnered 216,385 votes. Mr Kinuthia polled 150,137 votes. Former Nacada boss who is also former Naivasha MP, John Mututho, came in third with 30,487 votes. Following the announcement, Mr Kinuthia disputed the results citing discrepancies in some polling stations. He vowed to contest the poll results. NAKURU IRON LADY Also carrying the day was Nakuru County Assembly Speaker Susan Kihika who trounced her rivals emerging the winner in the race for the Jubilee Party ticket for the Nakuru Senate seat. She garnered 270,581 votes with her closest rival-lawyer Karanja managing 49,141/votes at second position. In the Women Representative race, Nominated Senator Lisa Chelule has the ticket. She polled 119,924 votes, with her closest rivals Anne Njeri and Zipporah Kimani garnering 55,111 and 43,902, respectively. Mr Kinyanjui had taken an early lead from Wednesday night when vote counting started. It wasn't, however, until this money that the final tally was announced. Results from Njoro constituency had delayed and were received earlier this morning. Mr Kinyanjui, Ms Kihika and Ms Chelule were present when the results were announced at the Nakuru ASK showground Friday morning. Provisional results had indicated that Mr Kinyanjui had maintained a lead in the race for the Jubilee Party ticket, managing impressive votes in areas considered to be governor Mbugua's strongholds. Nominations for the governor’s seat proved to be a titanic battle, shaping into a two horse race for the two front runners, with the third contestant for the Jubilee Party ticket- former Naivasha MP Mr Mututho trailing. In the Senatorial race, Nakuru’s iron lady- Ms Kimani led by a wide margin against Mr Kabage who came second. Ms Kihika put a strong campaign for the senate seat from last year and gave her rivals a strong contest. Former Subukia MP Koigi Wa Wamwere who folded his Chama Cha Mwananchi party in September to join Jubilee was also in the race. Others were Mr John Njenga Mungai, Mambo Josepha Wambui, Andrew Yatich Cherogony, Davynisius Matagaro Omae and Jackson Wachira Waihenya. Described as the iron lady of Nakuru County, Ms Kihika has fulfilled predictions showing her as the front runner for the seat and it remains to be seen by what margin she will beat the male dominated race. In the County Woman Representative race the incumbent Ms Mary Mbugua was given a rough contest by Nominated Senator Lisa Chelule who emerged the winner.  