The more than 700,000 civil servants are expected to enjoy increased salaries in a new plan by the government to improve the minimum wage of workers. State House Spokesperson Manoah Esipisu said the government was in negotiations with the Salaries and Remuneration Commission (SRC) and the Central Organisation of Trade Union to improve the pay ahead of the closure of the current financial year. Speaking at the Kisumu State lodge, Mr Esipisu said: “The government has not increased the minimum wage for two years and the President favours an increase for this year. So it is something that workers can look forward to.” SALARY HARMONISATIONAlready, the Cabinet had approved a Sh100 billion budgetary increase to cater for the pay rise in the proposed 2017/18 budget estimates. The government allocation is aimed at making the civil service more attractive dissimilar to previous structure where it was marred with unfair promotions and tribalism. Mr Esipisu also said there were plans to improve allowances for police officers with the National Police Service Commission (NPSC) in the process of reviewing pay for the officers. While announcing the planed review of salaries last December, the Sarah Serem-led SRC also recommended harmonised salary grades for the civil servants. JOB GROUPSIn the communication dated December 6, 2016 and addressed to Public Service Commission Chairperson Margaret Kobia, employees in both the national and county governments will benefit from a review that will see the salary of the least paid civil servant in grade B1 rise from Sh11,553 to Sh14,442. The highest paid civil servant in grade E4 with a starting salary of Sh292,765 will earn up to Sh576,120 per month. SRC also graded the public service into 19 categories. Wages and allowances of State officers cost taxpayers Sh627 billion annually, accounting to half of the revenues the government collects. Wages of public workers is about 13 per cent of the gross national product. “We have noted in the last few days stories about salaries for security agencies and especially the police and we can confirm that the Johnston Kavulundi-led team (NPSC), the SRC and other relevant stakeholders are in negotiations on this matter and the government awaits final recommendation on the matter,” said Mr Esipisu. POLICE SCHEMEHe added: “But it is common knowledge that the welfare of our men and women in uniform is of paramount concern to his Excellency the President.” Last week, the Nation revealed that the Kavuludi-chaired commission has held a series of meetings with Ms Serem to defend its recommendations. “It is true that the Kavuludi recommendations on a new police service scheme are what is being reviewed by the SRC for pay rise of all people in the security sector,” said a top government source privy to the process.  