Former President Mwai Kibaki campaigned for and made indirect endorsement for his nephew Nderitu Muriithi, who wants to vie for the governorship of Laikipia on a Jubilee Party ticket. In a 20-minute speech at Nanyuki Sports Club, the former Head of State told the 300 delegates that he had neck pains, months after he was discharged from a South African hospital over a blood clot. Mr Kibaki, who was in August admitted for one week at Netcare Sunninghill Hospital to remove a blood clot in a vein in his neck, said he could speak loudly. During the meeting, he lauded Mr Muriithi’s development plan for the semi-arid county and described him as a hardworking man. On Friday, he held a similar political meeting in Nyahururu. It is the first time he is participating in the regional politics since 2013 when he exited from the top seat, leaving nobody from his family in the leadership arena. “Those who work hard are always admired. I have experience in these things and I have been there. I believe we will succeed and have the job,” said Mr Kibaki while supporting the former Industrialisation Assistant Minister. He called for more focus on water and infrastructure sectors, adding that public participation was vital in governance. The former President is also the special envoy for water in Africa under the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization. “Water is important. Seek ways of increasing water accessibility,” he said. He called for calm in war-torn areas of Laikipia North and Baringo, saying the insecurity incidents will affect the region’s development and economic growth. He hit out at politicians criticising deployment of security agencies in areas experiencing insecurity. He urged voters to demand from their leaders to fulfill pledges made during the electioneering period. “You must make good decisions during voting and demand services. Some of the existing problems are not new but have been there because of unfulfilled pledges,” he said. He told the delegates to “speak with one voice” in supporting Mr Muriithi and expressed confidence that he will clinch the seat.  