MPs have ordered the audit of the Sh38 billion programme to supply hospitals with modern equipment after the Health ministry refused to hand over the contracts for scrutiny by the Health committee. The recommendation was made by the Budget and Appropriations committee in a report adopted by the National Assembly last Wednesday. The committee chaired by Mbeere South MP Mutava Musyimi reported that there were concerns amongst lawmakers about the Managed Equipment Service Project. They said its services have been hampered by uninstalled equipment in some hospitals as well as inadequate staff. “However, despite these concerns, the programme’s budgetary allocation in 2016/17 was further adjusted upwards to Sh9.6 billion (an increment of Sh5.1 billion) in the supplementary estimates for 2016/17,” the committee said. It also emerged that the Health committee had failed to get the contracts for the project from the ministry, which made it difficult for the MPs to make informed decisions on the matter. EMERGING CHALLENGES “As such, it is recommended that the Auditor-General undertakes a performance audit on the implementation of the MES programmes in a bid to address any emerging challenges and ascertain value for money,” said the committee. The team had recommended that Sh1 billion be taken from the Sh6 billion allocated to the MES project and be given to other priority areas. The adoption of the report means that the Auditor-General has to act on the recommendation and report to the National Assembly. The Auditor-General is Parliament’s principal advisor on the financial management of all three arms of the government plus its agencies. This is not the first time that questions have been raised about the programme, whose aim is to supply equipment to help diagnose cancer, manage kidney problems, and carry out X-rays. Hospitals were also to have theatres for surgery. During scrutiny of the Supplementary Budget for the current financial year, MPs were concerned after the Health ministry said it had fallen behind in payments and had been fined Sh80 million by General Electric. The committee eventually decided to reduce the allocation to the programme by Sh1.5 billion.   Move sets stage for a row between the government and multinationals supplying the kits.