Just who will blink first as Kenya Cup league enters the high octane semi-final stage on Saturday starting at 4pm in Nairobi.Homeboyz takes the battle to defending champions Kabras Sugar at the Jamhuri Park show ground while a bubbly Kenya Commercial Bank (KCB) host quietly confident Kenya Harlequin at KCB Sports Club, Ruaraka.It will be exciting to see if the massive tactical changes and shuffling the protagonists have effected will work as they battle for places in the final. An explosive display looms especially in the forwards where the teams boast of experienced players.Homeboyz will be without fullback Tony Onyango, who has been replaced by the equally good Leonard Mugaisi while Stanley Isigol comes in for Elisha Owuor at second row.Kabra Sugar will have to do without their influential fly-half Brian Tanga, who has been replaced by John Kubu. Kubu played at fullback when Kabras Sugar edged out Resolution Impala Saracens 21-18 to reach the semi-finals last weekend. Felix Ayange moves to fullback with Kevin Kabole starting at the wing.Homeboyz topped the league during the regular season for the first time to claim an automatic place in the semi-final, their first time too since their Kenya Cup debut in 2013.Homeboyz and Kabras have met three times before in Kenya Cup action. Kabras won the first encounter during the 2014/15 season 7-5 but the Deejays reigned supreme later, winning 29-28 win during the 2015/16 season and 34-22 this season.The Deejays will bank on their forwards especially Steve Otieno, Emmanuel Mavala, Phillip Ikambili and Bram Mayaka but they should brace for a bruising battle with Kabras forward line of Max Adaka, Duncan Mwangi, Hilary Mwanjilwa, George Nyambua and Daniel Sikuta.HEFTY PACK Even though they have a hefty pack our speed is what will work for us, said Murunga. I know Homeboyz are enjoying their best form ever, having won against all the top sides. They are a more organised and physical side, said Kabra Sugar deputy coach Anthony Ogot. It won t be any easy game but we are ready for them. Quins coach Joel Ng ang a has made one change, bringing in Eric Shikuku for injured full-back Kevin Keegan.Ng ang a will bank on his forwards, who include Kang ethe brothers James and Joseph, and Wilson K Opondo, and Brian Okwomi among others. Quins, who have lifted the Kenya Cup eight times have not won since 2012 while the four times champions KCB last won the diadem in 2015. We have worked on our back three and something is brewing. Come watch on Saturday, said Ng ang a.KCB coach Curtis Olago has made one change, replacing Kenya Sevens skipper Andrew Amonde with Ian Indimuli. email print email print Kenya Sevens on Friday lost 17-14 to Canada in the opening match of their Hong Kong Sevens campaign. Others thought to be involved include the police, garage owners and spare part dealers. More and better jobs will be the outcome of my drive to shift our economic gears.