Jubilee sacked three presiding officers in Kisii as the party prepared to conduct its nominations Wednesday. The three dismissed the three over allegations they held a secret meeting with aspirants from Nyaribari Masaba. Party officials in the region said the officers had since been replaced and that the exercise will still go on smoothly. “We have taken remedial action and so far everything is expected to run smoothly today,” said elections coordinator Mr Joel Osando. He assured aspirants that the primaries will be free and fair and there should be no cause for alarm. Branch chairman Mr Samuel Ayiro and General Secretary Isaac Motari also said security had been beefed up. “As a party we have prepared that more than 500 police officers be deployed across all the 246 polling centres,” he said. DEFECTED He said voting will mainly take place at centres in the sub-locations. In the primaries, Mr Alfred Nyangweso will fight it out with Senator Chris Obure for the party’s ticket for governorship. Mr Nyangeso, who had feared that his name may not be in the ballot said he will sue in case of the eventuality. For woman rep, radio journalist Donya Doris will battle for the ticket alongside the incumbent Mary Otara and Brigid Ombati. Ms Otara defected to Jubilee from the opposition party ODM. MPs Richard Tong’i (Nyaribari Chache), Simeon Ogari (Bomachoge Borabu), Joel Onyancha (Bomachoge Borabu), Stephene Manoti (Bobasi) have received direct nominations as they had no opponents. Former Constitution Implementation Chairman Charles Nyachae has also received the party’s direct ticket to face Prof Sam Ongeri of ODM for senatorial seat. CANDIDATES MPs Zebedeo Opore will face former chief Mary Ratemo in Bonchari Constituency. Jimmy Angwenyi, the Kitutu Chache North MP will contest for the Jubilee ticket against Dr Peter Ndemo, Ndemo Ong’era, Dr Ibrahim Atuti and Joseph Bogonko. Separately, Kenya National Congress will conduct its nominations in Nyamira and Kisii counties Wednesday. The party will field candidates for the governorship, MPs, Senator and Woman rep. In Kisii, South Mugirango MP Manson Nyamweya will be battling for gubernatorial ticket with Governor James Ongwae. Two women, Pamela Osiemo and Norah Nyamwamu will battle it out for the party ticket to for the Woman Rep seat.  