Like in any other business, success in real estate depends on the team of employees you have.  So if you want to start a real estate company, what is the best way of recruiting staff? “Recruiting talent in the real estate sector requires an understanding of the market. You want high performers who will get the business up and running within the shortest time possible,” says Ms Dorcas Karuana, a Nairobi-based recruitment consultant. “Remember that your ideal candidate probably has a job and you need to not only get their attention, but also give them a good reason to leave a position in which they might well be content.” Below are tips for hiring the right people when setting up your firm. 1. Be clear about the role Creating descriptive, clear and concise job descriptions that attract candidates is paramount.  In particular, Ms Karuana suggests, list the day-to-day tasks, how the role fits into the overall company goals and be sure to include key information like salary range, benefits, and any necessary skills that are unique to the real estate market. This helps potential applicants see the importance of the position in the company and assures them that they will be making a valuable contribution. 2. Go where the talent is “Figure out where the best candidates are likely to hang out, whether virtually or physically. For instance, attend home expos and conferences where you are likely to find diverse real estate talent,” suggests Ms Karuana. An event such as the homes expo is a great place to see, say, a sales person in action and get a sense of how they deal with customers. Conferences are also a great way to attract talent since they allow you pitch the business in a more conversational way. Such events give you a chance to talk about your company’s vision in a non-interview setting and to meet potential talent more casually, says Ms Karuana. 3. Think quality, not quantity Ms Karuana notes that while skills can be taught, a winning personality makes all the difference. So instead of recruiting many sales agents, focus on looking for people who can use the current tools and resources, have exceptional interpersonal skills and are goal-oriented. “Don’t be afraid to invest time with new real estate talent. Offer continuous earning opportunities to help build them. This creates loyalty and shows you care,” she says. 4. Offer flexibility “As long as your team can meet their goals and collaborate when needed, offering flexible schedules and office hours is a huge selling point,” says Ms Karuana. Therefore, a little outside work here and there will go a long way in ensuring employee happiness and retention while not hampering the in-office culture or productivity. 5. Company culture A strong company culture shows your employees that you care about their ideas, passions and careers. “Whatever your company’s mission and core values, own them, live by them and hire in accordance with them. You want to hire people who align with these so they will be a natural fit and feel a sense of purpose,” says Ms Karuana. 6. Look for all-round employees While having a handful of experienced sales people in a sales-focused venture is wise, recruiting an all-round employee is the surest bet. Vouching for both business and service-minded people as opposed to individuals experienced in sales only, Ms Karuana says that well-rounded employees tend to build lasting relationships with customers and eventually bring more business. “Your sales employees should help their clients in any way possible, not just sell to them. They should listen to their needs, wants, and concerns, and thereby, build relationships with them. Find real estate agents who can do that and run all aspects of the business, and you’ll be golden,” says Ms Karuana. 7. Impress the candidate The best real estate talents are hard to come by. And while the employer might think that it’s the candidate’s job to impress him or her, Ms Karuana cautions that recruitment is a two-way street. “The odds are that your company isn’t the only one the candidate has his/her eye on, so you need to prove that it is the best fit. It is important that the candidate feel valued when they spend time with you,” she says 8. Don’t be afraid to test them It’s expensive to hire an employee, but it’s even more expensive to replace one, notes Ms Karuana. So, before you commit, it might be worth it — for both parties — to test the waters with a short-term contract.  Ms Karuana says that in her experience as a recruiter, no amount of “it looks good on paper” or “great references” replaces actual assessment of a person’s work ethic, productivity, and ability to work in a team. 9. Treat your employees like allies Ms Karuana cautions against treating employees like your assets. “Treat them as your allies working towards a mutually beneficial goal. Make them feel that they are valued as talented individuals, not as valuable company assets. Employee recognition schemes are a good way of achieving this,” she says. 10. Put your employees first One way of recruiting, and retaining, top talent is to create a company culture that the best employees want to work in. This entails treating employees with consideration and respect. Place your best employees in positions where their talent can be maximised.  