Until 2014, Joseph Peter Delewa, popularly known as Sejo , was a prolific basketball player who turned out for Nakuru Club in the Kenya Basketball Federation Premier League.However, his sad but inevitable entrance into the world of prosthetic limbs after his two legs were amputated in a span of less than two years became a game changer. His world of sporting has turned upside down. Sejo loves basketball and Menengai High School court was like his second home. Almost every weekend I used to play, officiate and coach basketball vigorously but that has all be taken away from me, he says.Sejo spent a great deal of his time coaching Nakuru Club and nurturing upcoming talents from the local schools for nearly three decades.But as fate would have it, he would never enjoy the thrills of the game for the rest of his life. Sejo, who was at the centre of all attacks during his playing days, now watches the action from the touchline.It all started in 2014 when he started feeling pain on his left leg. At first, the doctors didn t know what was wrong. He kept getting diagnosed with different ailments including typhoid and a foot disease. Doctors established that there was a clot in the artilleries blocking flow of the blood.His leg was amputated above the knee. He slowly came to terms with reality of living with one leg but then came another shocker. My right leg started behaving like the left leg and I rushed to the doctor but it was too late, he said. The leg was amputated below the knee in July 2016. His love for the game did not water down his appetite for the game he loved most. He continued monitoring the basketball activities as he limped to Menengai High School court whenever there was a match.He started feeling some strange headache.After some time the painful headache led to a slow closure of his right eye. Doctors discovered a clot in my head which was swelling and blocking the nerve that opens the right eye, he said.Sejo, 52, who is unemployed, requires Sh2 million to undergo an operation delicate operation to remove the clot in India. Well-wishers can contribute money towards his treatment through MPesa pay bill number 678224 or by sending money directly to him his mobile telephone number 0722375991. email print email print Inflation rises to its highest since May 2012 as prices rise week by weekODM leader tells Jubilee to leave Joho alone and pledges to ensure all votes are counted in