A day after President Uhuru Kenyatta assured Kenyans the country will be ready to host next year's Africa Nations Championship, Harambee Stars coach Stanley Okumbi has followed up and commenced preps ahead of the competition. On Friday, the youthful Okumbi, who currently boasts a 10-match unbeaten streak stretching back one year, unveiled a local based squad which is set to tackle Malawi in an international friendly in Machakos on April 18. The Chan tournament, which is a strictly reserved to players featuring in their respective local leagues, will be staged in Nairobi, Eldoret, Machakos and Meru between January 11 and February 2. The selected squad boasts relative experience, including several first team players in the SportPesa Premier League, the likes of goalkeepers Boniface Oluoch and Patrick Matasi who turn out for Gor Mahia and Posta Rangers respectively. Also handed opportunities are a couple of rookies, such as National Super League duo Morven Otinya and Chris Masinza who turn out for Palos and Vihiga United respectively. "I have always wished for an opportunity to turn out for Harambee Stars but I didn’t expect it this soon. I am elated and now planning to score against Malawi." Masinza, who has scored four goals in as many league matches said. The new crop of players will be tasked with maintaining the national team's recent impressive form, coming weeks after a 2-1 win over the Democratic Republic of Congo. This result helped Stars 10 places to 78th on the monthly Fifa rankings. SQUADGoalkeepers Boniface Oluoch (Gor Mahia) Patrick Matasi (Posta Rangers) Defenders Simon Mbugua (Posta Rangers), Jockins Atudo (Posta Rangers), Robinson Kamura (AFC Leopards), Musa Mohammed (Gor Mahia), Pascal Ogweno (Kariobangi Sharks), Harun Shakava (Gor Mahia), Bolton Omwenga (Kariobangi Sharks), Siraj Mohammed (Bandari), Omar Mbongi (Ulinzi) Midfielders Duncan Otieno (AFC Leopards), Ernest Wendo (Gor Mahia), Joseph Kuria (Posta Rangers), Kenneth Muguna (Gor Mahia), Amos Asembeka (Sony Sugar), Chris Masinza (Vihiga United), Samuel Onyango (Ulinzi Stars), Noah Wafula (Tusker) Strikers Morven Otinya (Palos), Masita Masuta (Nzoia), Chrispinus Onyango (KCB), Darius Msagha (Bandari), Cavin Odongo (Kariobangi Sharks), Paul Kiongera (AFC Leopards)  