There were chaos and disappointment on Tuesday during Amani National Congress (ANC) primaries in Bungoma County. Delays in delivery of voting materials besides names of some of the aspirants missing from the ballot papers, was blamed for the chaos. For instance Edwin Opwora, an aspirant for Luhya/Bwake Ward in Kabuchai constituency, was unlucky to find his name missing from the ballot papers. His angry supporters stopped the exercise in all voting centres in the ward. Speaking in Bungoma town, Mr Opwora accused ANC officials of trying to sabotage his ambition, despite fulfilling all conditions required by the party. POOR PREPARATIONS “I am angry that despite paying the registration fee and being a life member, I have been rigged out, I am very sad that they have messed up my life,” he said. In Webuye West constituency, aspirants complained about poor coordination by the party’s clerks and officials. Mr Philip Wamoto, a Webuye businessman and former chief campaigner of incumbent Dan Wanyama, decried poor preparations by party officials at the headquarters and attempts at rigging, by some aspirants. The aspirant who is fighting out with six others for the ANC ticket for Webuye West Constituency seat, also complained about delays in delivery of voting materials in some polling centres with some receiving them as late as 4pm, hours after many voters had given up and left. RETURNING OFFICER CHASED “We also managed to arrest a youth, impounded 23,000 marked votes in Chebosi Primary School in favour of one of my rivals and the police are doing nothing. “Voting materials reached Matulo and Misikhu Friends late, leading to angry supporters breaking the ballot boxes and tearing ballot papers in protest,’’ said a disappointed Mr Wamoto. Others in the race for Webuye West include veteran journalist Vitalis Musebe, Steve Biko Wafula, Michael Walekhwa, Barasa Kane, Nato Simuli and Charles Wafula. In Khalaba Ward, chaos broke out at Mukhaweli Primary School where supporters of Collins Wasswa and Cornelius Wanjala fought over delayed voting materials. Their supporters engaged in a fist fight after Mr Wasswa’s supporters chased the returning officer who had brought the voting materials at around 4pm. Several youths were injured when the fracas broke out.   Mr Wamoto is in a bruising battle for the coveted ticket with veteran Journalist Vitalis Musebe and five others.