Political aspirants across the country have come out to display their financial war chests, ranging from millions to billions of shillings to woo voters. They have invested in helicopters, trucks, top-of-the-range vehicles and magnificent billboards to catch the eye of the voter. In Kirinyaga, woman rep aspirant Wangui Ngirichi has been nicknamed the "Sonko" of Kirinyaga due to her flamboyant campaigns, which include the use of helicopters. “So far, we have spent more than Sh200 million on the campaigns,” said her husband Peter Ngirichi. Even though some politicians refused to disclose the cost of buying and branding their helicopters, prices range from Sh100 million to Sh400 million depending on the type and capacity. SEVEN PASSENGERS The Eurocopter EC135 carries seven passengers for 620 kilometres and costs $3.9 million (Sh390 million). The Eurocopter 350 Ecureil costs around $1.95 million (Sh195 million). It can carry six passengers and fly for 675 kilometres. A helicopter consumes 150 to 160 litres of jet A-1 fuel in an hour. One hour of fuel costs about Sh13,000. To park a helicopter at a hangar at Wilson Airport for maintenance costs between Sh150,000 and Sh200,000 for two days.   Meanwhile, branding a saloon car using light material costs between Sh19,000 and Sh23,000. Solid branding, which uses thicker and heavier stickers, costs between Sh25,000 and Sh27,000 while branding vans costs Sh26,000 and above. TRUCKS BRANDED Politicians who want their roadshow trucks branded are paying between Sh40,000 and Sh60,000, depending on the size of the truck and the material used. Another frequent user of helicopters is Nyeri senatorial aspirant Ephraim Maina, who has been nicknamed Kifiririki (helicopter). Mr Maina has spent close to Sh10 million on billboards across the county. In Kiambu, Governor William Kabogo, who is known for his love for fast cars, has displayed opulence in his campaigns like no other governor aspirant. His motorcade, which traverses the county almost daily, consists of high riders, some resembling military vehicles. MILITARY VEHICLE One of them is an Iveco LMV (Light Multirole Vehicle), a four-wheel drive tactical vehicle developed by the Italian industrial vehicle manufacturer of the same name. It is a military vehicle used by the armies of Belgium, Italy, Norway, Russia and Spain. But for Mr Kabogo, who acquired it last year, it is a campaign truck. Also on the list of his vehicles is another military machine whose make not even his employees know.   The governor, who occasionally also uses helicopters, used President Kenyatta’s tour of Kiambu two weeks ago to flaunt the truck. He also uses a Hummer, which is currently branded with his campaign posters. MILLIONS OF SHILLINGS In Tharaka-Nithi, Chuka/Igambang'ombe MP Muthomi Njuki, who is seeking the governor's seat, has spent millions of shillings on vehicles and billboards. Mr Njuki said the two billboards in Chuka town cost Sh300,000 per month, which translates to Sh2.4 million for the eight months he has booked. “The big tent costs Sh1 million per day plus other logistical expenses,” he said. In Murang'a, Governor Mwangi wa Iria has at least three roadshow trucks. He hires each truck at Sh40,000 per day, amounting to Sh120,000 daily. In six months, the county boss will have spent Sh21 million. HAVE A CHOPPER “We already have a chopper, over 200 Prados donated by well-wishers and which have been branded Jubilee and we are sourcing for more because we need 20 mobilisation vehicles per ward,” said a source in his campaign team. “The campaign budget is as of now likely to be about Sh500 million. The money has been donated by supporters of the governor.” Mr Wa Iria is also said to have bought eight new Ford Ranger double-cabin pickup trucks, each mounted with a public address system.   Igembe South MP Mithika Linturi, who is eyeing the Meru senatorial seat, and governor aspirant Kiraitu Murungi have been using branded and unbranded helicopters. Meru Governor Peter Munya often uses a helicopter to traverse the county during development and PNU rallies. GUARANTEES VICTORY In Nyanza, where winning an ODM ticket almost guarantees one victory in the general election, politicians have put up expensive billboards going for up to Sh200,000 a month to woo voters. According to Mount Kenya Aerial Safaris, one needs at least $2,500 (Sh250,000) to hire a helicopter. Kisumu Governor Jack Ranguma, Senator Anyang’ Nyong’o and businessman Hezron McObewa, who are all seeking the governor's seat, have invested heavily in campaigns. The three have been using hired helicopters to pull crowds. Rarieda MP Nicholas Gumbo and Gem MP Jakoyo Midiwo have also been using hired helicopters for their campaigns. USING HELICOPTERSHelicopter sounds have also rent the air in Nyakach, where parliamentary aspirant Tom Osimbo is seeking to unseat area MP Aduma Owuor. Other politicians in the region who have resorted to using helicopters for campaigns include Siaya Senator James Orengo, Nyatike MP Edick Anyanga and his wife, Anne Anyanga, who is seeking to unseat Migori Governor Okoth Obado. Travel companies and taxi operators in Kisumu are enjoying booming business, as politicians intensify their hunt for votes. In Nakuru, Benson Mureithi of Soundel Entertainment revealed that he had raised the price of hiring out trucks as demand for the services go up. Mr Mureithi said he receives at least five calls daily from clients, who are mainly politicians. ACCEPTING THE DEAL“Sometimes I am forced to set a price to put off some customers but they always surprise me by accepting the deal,” he said. He said one would have to part with Sh150,000 to hire a 40-feet truck and Sh80,000 for a 20-feet truck for a day, up from Sh85,000 and 50,000 respectively on a normal season.   Nakuru senatorial aspirant Susan Kihika is among those whose campaigns has been characterised by flamboyance. She has an aircraft at her disposal, which she sometimes uses to criss-cross the region in search of votes. Ms Kihika also has billboards at various places in the county, including on the Nakuru-Nairobi highway. A billboard costs between Sh120,000 and Sh200,000. In Samburu, politicians have been using fuel guzzlers, including Toyota Land Cruiser Prados. Some aspirants also use branded helicopters in the campaigns. A source told the Nation that the politicians spend between Sh50,000 and Sh100,000 a day. TRAVERSE COUNTY In Narok, Governor Samuel Tunai has been using helicopters for his campaigns. Chopper company ALS charges about $1,700 (Sh147,900) per hour or slightly more for a minimum of two hours. In Mombasa, Governor Hassan Joho is said to have acquired three helicopters to allow him to travel across the county. Mr Joho, popularly known as "Governor 001", uses the helicopters not only for his coast tours but also to visit far-flung parts of the country such as Nyanza and Rift Valley. “Governor Joho has not bought a single chopper. He hires them when he needs them but he does not own one himself,” said Richard Chacha, his spokesman. Reports by Eric Matara, Joseph Openda, Macharia Mwangi, Godfrey Oundoh,  George Sayagie, Daniel Nyassy, Justus Ochieng, Grace Gitau, George Munene,  Alex Njeru, Nicholas Komu, Eric Wainaina and David Muchui.  