In October last year, South African President Jacob Zuma made a historic State visit to Kenya that has already started yielding positive results. Discussions during the visit led to the signing of seven bilateral agreements and memoranda of understanding, covering defence, police, immigration, investment and environmental cooperation. On immigration the following outcomes have been recorded: •A visa waiver agreement was signed, which will allow Kenyan Government officials to travel to South Africa without visas once the agreement comes into effect; •Long-term visas are being issued to business people, academics and regular travellers to South Africa, if the set requirements are met; •Visa processing time has been reduced from seven to five days; •Student visas are now receiving consideration within seven days in peak periods and are issued to cover the duration of the study period; REFINING PROCESS We are continuously refining our processes to make it easier for Kenyans to travel to South Africa within the set legal boundaries. We have committed ourselves to enhancing the economic ties between South Africa and Kenya, to address the imbalances in the relationship. On trade and investment, Kenya is South Africa’s largest trading partner on the continent outside the Southern African Development Community (Sadc) region. South Africa is among the top five sources of Kenya’s foreign direct investment. We have noted, though, that trade between the two nations is in favour of South Africa. TRADE IMBALANCE Given South Africa’s developmental approach to the rest of the continent, we do acknowledge that this huge trade imbalance needs urgent attention. A policy to encourage South African firms to invest in other African countries is being implemented through an initiative known as Trade Invest Africa. Its sole mandate is to enable South African companies to venture into the rest of the continent to contribute to manufacturing and help increase intra-African trade. On infrastructure, a Memorandum of Understanding was signed for cooperation on the LAPSSET Corridor project. There are ongoing discussions to formalise South Africa’s participation, which includes possible funding for the project from the Development Bank of South Africa. ECONOMIC RELATIONSHIP These, among others, are the factors defining the mutual economic relationship and it is evidenced by the growing business communities in both countries. South Africa reaffirms its commitment to working with all other member states for the reform of the United Nations system. This is informed by our belief that these institutions must be representative of the diversity of humanity, and be governed in a transparent and open manner for the benefit of all nations irrespective of size. We encourage the UN agencies headquartered in Nairobi, namely UN-Habitat and Unep, which are in different stages of reform, to continue playing their important roles in articulating issues affecting the developing countries, in general, and Africa, in particular. ECONOMIC POWERHOUSE As economic powerhouses in our respective regions, it is important that South Africa and Kenya continue to fortify their political and economic relations to help realise the dream of an integrated Africa. South Africa is fully committed to strengthening bilateral economic and political relations with Kenya. Kenya is currently in the middle of the very important democratic process of preparing for a General Election. Like any election, it is intense and highly competitive. We wish Kenyans well as the August 8 date nears, and hope to see a peaceful and successful poll.  Ms Koleka A. Mqulwana is South Africa’s High Commissioner to Kenya  