World-beaters Peter Gituma and Nicholas Mwiti from Meru County revel quietly in their recent glory. Withering bouquets remain the only testament to the unlikely heroes of a little known sport at which they excelled to win gold at the 2017 World Winter Special Olympics Games in Austria. Gituma, 18 and Mwiti,17 from Meru are members of the National Floor Hockey team that floored Chinese Taipei (China) 8:0 to retain the world Floor Hockey title, glory that Gituma and Mwiti were an integral part of. The competitions were held between March 14 and 25 at Austria’s Graz and Messe cities. Kenya's Floor Hockey team are two time world champions having won gold during the 2013 World Winter Special Olympics in Pyeongchang, South Korea. The teenagers, standing tall and on the cusp of manhood are your everyday exuberant youth. Nothing about them attracts a second glance but they were diagnosed with mild intellectual disability. The duo who have never won an academic award had never dreamt of winning anything let alone travelling to another part, or out of the country. Therefore, their recent feat that placed them at the top of the world is a pleasant surprise not just for them but their community. This, they take as an omen for a better future for them and their families.   GREAT SPORTSMANSHIP Besides their common condition, Gituma and Mwiti also come from very poor backgrounds with their guardians struggling to eke a living and from their meagre resources, are unable to find specialised care and education for them. Children with mild intellectual disabilities are slow in learning new skills and concepts and are taken through special class before integration into the normal school curriculum. Gituma lives with his father and aged grandmother and despite having sat for Kenya Certificate Primary Education (KCPE) last year, he is yet to join secondary school. The former pupil of Rwanderi Primary school in Imenti Central scored 129 marks. He may not have been the brightest but he was a celebrated sportsman in his school for his participation in athletics and games. When the www.nation.co.ke visited Gituma at Mukongorone village, he was still recovering from jet lag and the excitement of traversing the world for the first time as he prepared to look for casual jobs to help supplement his family's income. The family's homestead whose main house with its walls of timber sags under the weight of rusty iron sheets that look hastily and randomly thrown together to make a roof for the three, tells a sad story. With a dirt earth that the Gituma's grandmother sweeps everyday, petals of dried flowers presented to Gituma at Jomo Kenyatta International Airport look misplaced. His aged grandmother was not aware about her grandson’s exploits. Fearful the weak structure may not not hold his treasure, Gituma has handed over his gold medal to his former school for safe keeping. He still longs for further education. “I was introduced to floor hockey by Coach Andrew Mutua last year and that is when I mastered the sport. I am excited that I made it to the national team and helped place Kenya on top of the world. My desire now is to continue with my education.” Rwanderi head teacher Eva Mbwiri says Gituma had dropped out of school for more than one year before he was readmitted to the special education unit. “Despite the intellectual disability, Gituma is endowed with sporting talents. We have been supporting him in the floor hockey competitions even after he left school. He now needs support to continue with his education and nurture the talent,” she said.   GREAT ODDS Meanwhile, Mwiti, 17, a class seven pupil at Irinda primary school in Imenti North lives with both parents at Majengo slum on the edge of River Kathita, which cuts across Meru town. His family is banking on the gold medal to help reclaim a prime piece of land that was sold off by his grandfather, and secure his future. “I am very proud to have represented Kenya in the Special Olympics. In the final match, I scored two goals helping my team to beat China. I am now respected by my peers because of winning the gold medal. Floor hockey has lifted my self-esteem because friends listen to me,” Mwiti says. He recounts his experience of Austria’s advanced transport system and cleanliness saying it is the reason for his desire to continue with education. “I want to continue improving my talent and pursue further education because of the experience I had with floor hockey. I urge parents who have children in special unit not to limit them,” he said. Mr Mutua, one of the Special Olympics Floor hockey coaches in Kenya says the team of 12 overcame odds to win most of the matches during the competition. “We travelled late due to visa challenges and had to play immediately after we arrived in Austria.  We lost one group match against China whom we later defeated in the finals to defend the title,” Mr Mutua recounts. He said since most of the players come from humble backgrounds, they expected the government to give cash rewards to the winning team. Coach Mutua says much should be done in the national and county governments to support talents among children with special needs. In the meantime, Gituma and Mwiti believe the gold medal is only the beginning of better things. ****** FACTS Floor hockey is a stick and ball game played indoors, on a flat floor surface. It features two teams of six players each. One player serves as the centre, and can play offense and defense while two others serve as forwards, and play offense. Two players serve as defensemen, and work to protect the goal while another is the goalkeeper who stops the ball using their hands, feet, body, and stick. Players score points by hitting the ball into the opponent's goal within three 20 minute periods. Gituma and Mwiti were introduced to the game and trained at Kenya Methodist University from last year after they were identified during primary school games.  