At dusk, Kisii Town erupts into a frenzied bustle of human activity in the thriving 24-hour economy. The town is an economic giant in Nyanza region and is vibrant at night with the tens of fully packed clubs. Governor James Ongwae has said his government has enabled a 24-hour economy, by putting up streetlights that have improved security and aided the thriving of businesses. The flipside however is that the town is grappling with a swelling number of underage commercial sex workers, girls and boys. A walk down the streets as early as 9pm tells it all. PROSTITUTION During school holidays, students throng entertainment spots with some having sex afterwards. “My parents would be shocked if they knew I rarely sleep in my room,” says a girl identified as Moraa. She fears that an interview with her could expose her penchant for night life. She says besides getting entertainment, she is out to eke out a living by selling her body. Moraa is not alone. Skimpily dressed underage girls swarm the streets at night hoping to catch the attention of men. The girls nag male passers-by, even pulling them to their side. Most have bleached their skin, believing it will make them more attractive. The girls often have their way. They have perfected the art of wooing their clients by exposing their bodies. “I started this trade when I was about 17-years-old. I was a Form Two student in a secondary school near Kisii town. I am now 25 and although I sometimes find myself regretting joining the trade, the earnings keep me going,” says Atieno. She lives in the affluent Milimani where she and three colleagues share a one bedroom apartment. She long fell out with her parents. “Sweerie, what about tonight? Leave that woman you are walking with and come with me,” she calls out to a man walking by with a female friend. SPENDING MONEY She attempts to pull the man without a care in the world. She is now a veteran and even helps newcomers, mostly school dropouts and university students. The high number of universities in the region complicates it all. Kisii County education board chairman Henry Onderi says: “Underage boys are also involved. Secondary school boys are gambling addicts and have a lot of money. They drown in alcohol and commercial sex workers.” A boda boda rider says during school holidays, the boys help the riders and earn some cash and later “spend as little as Sh20 on commercial sex workers”. A report released last year indicates that approximately 55 per cent of people infected with HIV and Aids in the county had their first sexual encounter before the age of 15. Some of the boys during holidays relieve boda boda riders in what is commonly known as “squads”. In the evening after making several trips, they look for ways of spending their earnings.  