Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero has issued a directive that all illegal buildings in South C be demolished and grabbed land repossessed immediately. The governor ordered the County Planning and Lands Executive Christopher Khaemba to effect the directive within a week. "We are a country that is governed by the law and therefore we want people to follow the law. We must not allow this practice to go on," said Dr Kidero. He spoke at the Ministry of Works sports club in South C Ward on Tuesday where he met over 250 residents. The residents had complained to the city boss about the rampant grabbing of children playgrounds, mushrooming of unapproved structures within the estates, deteriorating security and rampant drug abuse among the youth fuelled by uncontrolled operation of liquor outlets. NO WATER "The main problem is grabbing of public land by private developers who are putting high-rise Estates, rising cases of insecurity and drug abuse among our youth," South C Residents Association chairperson Ranjanah Raj said. Ms Raj also complained about the lack of water in the estate saying that some of the existing boreholes were not in use. She suggested that instead of drilling more boreholes, the county should look for better alternatives. South C Ward was one of the beneficiaries of the Sh200 million by the national government and county government where 40 boreholes are currently being drilled across the county. Two boreholes will be drilled in South C Ward. DRUG ABUSE Another resident, Zulekha Abdi, decried excessive abuse of drugs among the youths. She said this had led to rising insecurity in the Estate ad urged the Governor to ensure cartels supplying the drugs are eliminated. Dr Kidero took a swipe at unnamed politicians in the city, accusing them of being behind the drugs being sold to the youths. "We must fight this drug menace being perpetrated by people who are seeking leadership posts in the county," he said without going into details. Meanwhile, he pleaded with the residents to support his re-election bid and allow him five more years to complete the projects his administration has initiated.  