Defending champions Kabras Sugar will face Kenya Commercial Bank (KCB) in the Kenya Cup final.Kabras once again mastered the wet conditions at the Jamhuri Park showground yesterday, when they tactically rallied from 5-17 down to beat Homeboyz 22-17 in extra time.It was drama on the soggy grounds as the sugarmillers and the deejays battled to a 17-17 stalemate in regulation time.At the KCB Sports Club, Ruaraka, four-time former champions KCB silenced a resurgent Kenya Harlequin 19-12 to enhance their chances of recapturing the title they last won in the 2014/2015 season.At Jamhuri Park, it was substitute Johnstone Muthama s extra-time try that flyhalf John Kubu converted to put Kabras through to the final and in line for their second consecutive title.Hillary Mwajilwa, Habil Malik and Perminus Macharia had earlier scored a try each for Kabras before Kubu converted to level the proceedings at 17-17Kevin Masai had converted tries from Leonard Mugaisi and Emmanuel Mavala in addition to a penalty to give Homeboyz a 17-10 lead at the break.The heavens however opened up in the second half to make play tricky but Kabras adapted to the conditions well with Kubu s strategic kicking doing the trick. For instance, it s Kubu s overhead chip that Macharia chased to ground the ball after Homeboyz fullback Mugaisi had failed to handle the ball on the slippery ground. MUKIDZA STARSProp Moses Amusala scored one try as fullback Darwin Mukidza converted it besides curling over four penalties to send KCB to the finals.The match will be a repeat of the 2014/2015 Kenya Cup final, where KCB won 27-3. KCB has also edged out Kabras 22-17 during the regular season this term.The final will be played in April 22 at the RFUEA grounds. The weather really didn t favour us...it s our strategy and structures that worked well for us, said Kabras Sugar deputy coach Anthony Ogot. We are yet to beat KCB but we have two weeks to work on the winning formula. KCB coach Curtis Olago said he also had two weeks to plan how to reclaim the title from Kabras. I can t talk about the final now since we have two weeks to plan, said Olago. Quins were worthy opponents and kudos to my charges for the victory. email print email print Both Kenya and France failed to qualify for the Cup quarters.