Beekeeping is a major economic activity in several counties. However, many beekeepers currently sell their honey to self-help groups as they try to beat middlemen. But even through the groups, most farmers still sell unprocessed honey at low prices. Yet value addition is the surest was to improve the quality of the product, fetching more returns. Honey processing starts with uncapping. This is the removal of the thin wax layer that seals the honey cells. Do this by using a hot, sharp knife that slices off the layers of cappings. Once this is done, the uncapped frames are now ready for the extractor. The most common extractor used is the centrifuge that gently coaxes the honey out of the cells as it rotates. After striking the walls of the extractor, the honey flows to the bottom where it is picked up by a pump and delivered into settling tanks. The extracting process traps tiny air bubbles in the honey and these (along with tiny bits of beeswax) rise to the top of the settling tank as a froth where they should be skimmed off. At this point, the honey is darker and cloudier, but there is a market for such unprocessed honey. But before it is filled in a jar, honey can then be flash-heated to 73.8°C filtered through paper, then flash cooled down to 48.9°C. This procedure is done very quickly, in approximately seven seconds. Although these heating procedures remove some of the honey’s healthful properties, some consumers prefer the lighter, bright-coloured honey. USES OF PROCESSED HONEY Honey can be used as a sugar substitute in almost any recipe. When substituting most or all of the sugar with honey, mild flavoured honeys may be more desirable as they will not overpower other flavours of the product. Honey can be consumed or used in raw state as produced by the bees. Sweetness, nutritive value and functional advantages like viscosity, flavour enhancement, colour, hygro-scopicity, miscibility and spread ability makes honey a valuable food ingredient. For baked products: Honey offers several advantages such as uniform baking with more evenly browned crust at lower temperatures, improved aroma by relatively small percentages of honey in sweet cakes, biscuits and bread, spongy consistency which persists longer, and softness. Products that contain honey also dry out more slowly and have a lesser tendency to crack. Honey in milk: Products include honey cream, honey cream cheese and honey butter. In the industrial sector, some non-medicinal honey-milk products exist, such as pasteurised and homogenised milk sweetened with honey for long-term storage. For the production of caramels, honey is used only in very small quantities and in few products that include honey gums, nougat and torrone, caramels and candies. Breakfast cereals industry: Honey is used either in its liquid or in its dried and pulverised form. It can be mixed or applied as a component of the sweeting and flavouring film, which covers the flakes. Sun dried fruits/nuts can be placed directly into the honey, either whole or chopped. Pasteurisation of both honey and fruits improves the hygiene and storability and reduces the risk of fermentation. A variety of spreads for bread are available in the market. There are products in which honey is either the major ingredient, such as flavoured honeys, or in which it only substitutes sugar as a cream spreads and fruit preserves. Fruit marmalade uses less sugar than other traditional recipes. Honey in non-alcoholic drinks: Honey drinks are most frequently mixed with lemon juice for a pleasant sweet and sour taste. In many fruit juices too, honey is added for flavour and as a sweetener. In apple juice, it is used to clarify the fresh juice. This is where it is used to remove pectin and other carbohydrates which are present in the juice. Fermented products made with honey: It is used in making alcoholic drinks that include honey beer, mead and wines. Carol is based at Egerton University.   It works as an antioxidant by removing toxins in the chicken body