So, the UK’s Daily Mail newspaper reminded us rather blatantly of the prejudices against women by comparing the legs of two brilliant leaders on its front page. Not their ideas, their legs. The ensuing uproar stated the Daily Mail has gone back to dark ages, an assertion that is possibly hypocritical. The paper simply reminded us of the world we are living in today, and yes, it is a dark world for women in some ways. A world of incessant discrimination against women from the president of a world super power and a polish MP and you aren’t safe from the village wag either. Here in Kenya, a popular TV host entertained a bullyish male politician to hammer down a woman, going as far as linking her success to her looks and sex appeal. We were up in arms, of course, and that was about it. WOMEN'S BEAUTY The world has been dark for the woman, only that most of the discrimination has become subtle, thus harder to see, identify and root out. Women live with painful reminders that no matter their brilliance and mettle, what the world really cares about is physical appearance and nurturing capability. Some of the worst forms are harder to see and prove, making them difficult to fight. The discrimination that has evolved from blatant to subtle is no longer the obvious cat-calling. It is now disguised in mansplaining. Interpersonal and behavioural expectations, passing sexist comments and remarks about your dress, shoes, mood, makeup, et cetera. These hints are a compilation of things that seem insignificant on their own. However, when taken together; they point at how the work place culture creates a hostile and oppressive environment for women. This discrimination is perpetrated by both men and women; sometimes, women more than men. MISPLACED FOCUS Subtle discrimination is meted in two ways. The unconscious expectation that women should be modest, nice and self-effacing at the work place and their assertiveness should combine with nurturing warmth because that’s just nature is descriptive subtle bias. While these traits are virtues on their own, they are incredibly harmful to a woman’s career when used to judge her job performance. On the flip side, is prescriptive bias, where women possess traits that are not associated with their gender. A woman will face opposition for being assertive, outspoken or blunt and will be casually asked to tone down (the same qualities in a man are judged as conviction and strength). Britain’s Theresa May and Nicola Sturgeon obviously defy this expectation, and in return, their legs are put on display for a best leg vote. Subtle discrimination normalised by society’s description of women, is so bad that even women find it hard to identify. According to a Harvard University research, subtle discrimination results in women getting fewer opportunities, receiving worse evaluations and even opens them up to “aggression” in the work place. It leads to women being perceived as interchangeable objects who underperform. FIGHTING DISCRIMINATION Even as organisations “Encourage women to apply”, the real situation is that managers constantly ignore the input of a woman or overlook her creativity, as a Harvard Business Review report posits. Research indicates that subtle discrimination has higher frequency than blatant discrimination, making it more stressful. It diminishes career success. Work place scientists advise managers that one way of limiting subtle biases to label covert discrimination as overt to stamp it out. Fighting blatant discrimination is the easy part, as easy as harmonising the pay-scale and applying across board. But fighting subtle discrimination is not so easy. The victims even find it hard to pin-point it, finding it okay in some cases, yet it is there and the consequences are not so subtle. Ms Mbiruru is a development communication specialist based in Nairobi. Ann.mbiruru@yahoo.com  