Cracks in the National Super Alliance (Nasa) widened Tuesday after two of the four affiliate parties clashed over a leaked coalition line-up for the August presidential elections. While Raila Odinga’s Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) said that there was indeed an agreement in the Nasa coordinating committee on the line-up, Mr Musalia Mudavadi’s Amani National Congress (ANC) hit back, accusing the Orange party of acting in bad faith by leaking the report to the media. The war of words started when the ODM Secretary-General Agnes Zani, a member of the coordinating committee, accused her ANC counterpart Godfrey Osotsi of lying about the existence of the committee report on the Nasa line-up. REPORT ACCURATE “The sentiments by ANC SG Mr Godfrey Osotsi are skewed. The assertion that there is no report is not accurate. "The report, and other processes are to be furthered on by the principals in next stages as was to be determined by them,” Dr Zani said in a statement. According to Dr Zani, a nominated senator, a leaked report on the Nasa line-up carried by various media stations on the shared positions was accurate. The report had said that the 12-man committee had settled on Mr Odinga as the presidential flag-bearer, Wiper’s Kalonzo Musyoka as his running mate, Mr Mudavadi as the chief minister, and Ford-Kenya’s Moses Wetang’ula as Speaker of a House he will choose. “That report leaked out in the form that the media presented. A few aspects and figures were not those of the committee but the line-up presented had been agreed on in the committee,” said Dr Zani. OUTRAGED About two hours later, Mr Osotsi hit back, accusing ODM of leaking the report. “We are outraged – and Zani ought to know – that admission by ODM party that it is responsible for dirty propaganda leaks undermines the credibility and integrity of the Nasa process. This level of arrogance shouldn’t be entertained,” said Mr Osotsi. He charged: “The ODM statement is a confession that leaves no doubt as to where leaks of working documents meant to undermine Nasa unity have been coming from. It is confirmation that ODM is negotiating in bad faith. This is bad manners that shouldn’t be entertained in any negotiation.” AUTHENTICITY Mr Osotsi said Dr Zani does not have the powers to speak on behalf of the committee. “It is only the co-chairs who are authorised to speak for NCC as a team and can vouch for authenticity of documents. The last time the co-chairs spoke they disowned what ODM through Zani now owns.” In her statement, Dr Zani said the committee had done its job. “The Nasa NCC committee was formed to, among other mandates identify and, in consultation with the principals, conclude the process for Nasa flag bearer team. “The structures of the committee and the Summit was that the report would be shared first with the principals and then further consensus and agreement would be sought,” Mr Osotsi said.   The four principals fail to agree at Vipingo meeting. #ElectionsKE