Police officers might get a pay rise in July, the Nation has learnt. Multiple government sources Thursday said the Salaries and Remuneration Commission, chaired by Sarah Serem, was evaluating proposals prepared by the National Police Service Commission. The Johnston Kavuludi-chaired commission has held a series of meetings with Ms Serem to defend its recommendations. “It is true that the Kavuludi recommendations on a new police service scheme are what is being reviewed by the Salaries and Remuneration Commission for a pay raise for all people in the security sector,” said a top government source privy to the process. ELECTIONS TIMEBut Mr Kavuludi declined to divulge information about his recommendations, saying: “When you have found out what they (recommendations) are about, then we can talk.” The revelations come as the country gears for the August 8 General Election, during which security officers are expected to play a key role in ensuring peace and order prevails. Inspector-General of Police Joseph Boinnet has the power to boost the nearly 100,000 officers under him by gazetting special officers to help in policing, especially at polling stations. Traditionally, the special officers have been drawn from other formations of the disciplined services — such as the Kenya Wildlife Service, National Youth Service, Kenya Prisons Service and Kenya Forest Service. A source was, however, quick to delink the pay raise from the elections, arguing: “This should not at all be linked to the elections. All civil servants who are due for a pay increase, including teachers, will get it from July; so, why not security officers?” ENFORCE LAWLast week, Mr Boinnet said review meetings on how police manage the elections will continue until after August 8. He had chaired the latest of senior officers' meetings, where he ordered county police commanders to develop “operational plans that are in tandem with the national election plan” that he unveiled in December. Mr Boinnet revealed that measures adopted ahead of the elections, as well as political party primaries that kicked off Thursday, include comprehensive mapping of the country. The regular meetings also involved officers from other national security agencies “for purposes of creating synergy and developing appropriate contingency plans”. They include the military, prisons and National Intelligence Service. Expecting violence, police officers have been heavily deployed in counties where tight competition is expected during the party primaries. “We are conscious from our mapping that certain seats are likely to attract intense competition, which in some instances could lead to violence,” police spokesman George Kinoti said. “All officers are under strict instructions to enforce the law firmly, irrespective of status and political affiliation.” JOB RISKSMr Kinoti further said police commanders in counties would be ready to work with politicians to ensure the law is obeyed and peace prevails. “We appeal to political party leaders to work with police commanders in their respective counties for the purpose of ensuring that their primaries are held in a peaceful and secure environment and all potential troublemakers are kept away,” he added. Non-State actors such as religious organisations and civil society were also involved in the series of meetings. And towards the main polls, officers on leave will be recalled to boost law enforcement. The NPSC pressed its case in favour of a raise for officers, which the SRC said would consider and align to the salary scale of other civil servants. Among other proposals, the NPSC wants remuneration pegged on skills, responsibility and risks faced by police officers in the course of their work. According to the commission, police work is unique compared with mainstream civil service and, therefore, the pay should be commensurate with what they do. The National Police Service has 12 job groups — from PG1 to PG12. On the other hand, the civil service has 19 pay scales. TITLE CHANGESConstables, the lowest-ranked officers, are on scale PG1 while PG 12 caters for officers of the rank of senior assistant inspector-general. The bulk of police officers are constables while there are less than 10 senior assistant inspectors-general. The pay raise is expected to be in tandem with a salary scheme developed by the NPSC, which proposes to abolish the pay grade of commissioner of police, usually held by county commanders, and replace it with principal superintendent of police. It seeks to avoid confusion with the top rank in the defunct Kenya Police Force, last held by Mathew Iteere in 2013. The scheme also proposes that officers in the Directorate of Criminal Investigations be referred to as “detective” to distinguish them from those of the Kenya Police and Administration Police. There were also “sub-schemes” for civilians and technical personnel working in the police.  