President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto described the Nasa line-up unveiled today at Uhuru Park as a non-starter. The President said it was more of the same Opposition group that they faced in 2013. He added that some of the positions promised in the deal needed a constitutional referendum to create. NEW POSITIONSBesides the National Super Alliance ticket of Raila Odinga and Kalonzo Musyoka in the August 8 General Election, the agreement has the seat of a chief minister reserved for Mr Musalia Mudavadi, which the principals believe is possible under the Constitution. “What we have witnessed is that someone has been misled and he shouldn’t tell his people he has bagged a yet-to-be-created position,” President Kenyatta observed. The Head of State said the Opposition politicians have lost focus of what leadership means by wasting their energy on how to create positions of power for themselves rather than to improve Kenyans’ welfare. He said they have for a long time hoodwinked Kenyans with the promise of an alternative only to end up with a blueprint for jobs for themselves. “This was never about the country. It was about giving jobs for themselves instead of the millions of Kenyans who need jobs,” President Kenyatta said.   In an apparent reference to the crimes against humanity cases that he and Mr Ruto faced at the International Criminal Court before their 2013 election victory, President Kenyatta wondered: “If we defeated them when we were in the jungle, what about now?” DIRECT NOMINATIONPresident Kenyatta said the ruling Jubilee Party has demonstrated its interest to deepen democracy by conducting free, fair and transparent nominations. In contrast, he said, the Opposition has conducted shambolic nominations that ended in anarchy and where certificates were dished out to preferred candidates. President Kenyatta spoke when he toured his populous Kiambu home county, where he addressed thousands of residents and thanked them for turning up in large numbers to participate in the primaries. SAME LINEUP Mr Ruto said the difference between Jubilee and the Opposition in terms of promoting democracy was as clear as day and night. He said Jubilee had conducted transparent nominations where voters made real choices, whereas the Opposition literally auctioned its tickets. The DP also described the opposition line-up as worthless. “They held meetings, seminars, retreats and rallies only for them to give us a rematch of 2013,” the Deputy President said. “If it were left to us, we would bring elections closer, like next week, and this time it will be 70 plus one.” “These are people who are only interested in fake stories and lofty positions,” he said.   Raila promises to be a one term president and to stick to MoU signed by the five leaders.