Bandari served up a delicious Easter special for their supporters as they thrashed Thika United 3-0 at Mbaraki Sports Club in Mombasa on Sunday.At the Moi Stadium in Kisumu, Western Stima laboured to a barren draw against neighbours Chemelil Sugar, thereby recording a third winless match since beating former champions Gor Mahia at the same grounds last month. League debutants Nzoia Sugar returned to winning ways with a 2-1 result over Kakamega Homeboyz at the Mumias Sports Complex as Zoo Kericho recorded a fifth consecutive loss after losing 3-0 to Sofapaka. AFC Leopards returned to winning ways after edging Muhoroni Youth 1-0 in Mombasa with an Allan Kateregga goal. Earlier in the coastal town, Thika started the game on a high note but were trailing 2-0 down at half time.Dan Sserunkuma and Darius Msagha scored for the Dockers in the first half. The Ugandan striker added a third in the 49th minute as Bandari moved to second place with 10 points from five matches.The visitors were awarded a penalty by Muranga-based referee, George Mwai in the ninth minute when striker Badi Baraka was fouled by Bandari defender Felly Mulumba. But the spot kick by Dennis Omino was brilliantly saved by goalkeeper Joseph Okoth who did well in the absence of Wilson Obungu who was red-carded last weekend during their match against Muhoroni Youth. Then came Bandari s first goal in the 17th minute when Anthony Wambani was fouled inside the box by Thika goalkeeper Eliud Emase and Sserunkuma made no mistake from the penalty.Sserunkuma could have scored his second goal in the 26th minute but fumbled in front of the goal. Wambani was the maker of the second goal in the 39th minute when he crossed to the centre for Msagha to send a bicycle kick into the far corner of the net. Thika s Joel Nsaha was sent off late in the match for dangerous play.Reporting by Abdul Sheriff, Gaitano Pessa and Titus MaeroWEEKEND RESULTSBandari 3-0 Thika United AFC Leopards 1-0 Muhoroni Youth K. Homeboyz 1-2 Nzoia Sugar Western Stima 0-0 Chemelil Sugar Zoo Kericho 0-3 SofapakaMONDAY'S FIXTURESK. Sharks v Nakumatt (Kenyatta Stadium, 2pm) Mathare United v Posta Rangers (Thika Stadium, 4.15pm) email print email print