The season for party nominations is here with us after weeks of highly charged campaigns. Yesterday, parties started picking candidates for the various seats to be contested on August 8. The political atmosphere is tense as the spectre of violence looms large. Elections have become a cut-throat contest with candidates deploying all tactics to go past the goalpost. AVERT CHAOSWe have witnessed dirty and unethical tricks at play in counties such as Busia, where impostors created a fake Daily Nation and crafted fake news of defection of one of the ODM contestants to Jubilee. Only last week, Busia was the scene of violence pitting supporters of two protagonists contesting the governor’s seat. Other counties have reported similar acts of aggressions and violence. More ugly incidents are likely to be reported as the nominations progress in all other parts of the country for the next two weeks. This is why security teams and party leaders must be on the lookout to avert chaos. Party primaries have become an integral process of our democracy since the return of multi-party politics. The way they are conducted and the outcomes define the level of maturity of our political system. ELECTION LAW Too often, the primaries have been defined by violence, intrigues, intimidation, blackmail, vote-rigging and bribery. Essentially, they explicate the deficiencies in party systems and structures. Parties are cult-like outfits revolving around few individuals who determine who takes what position, how resources are generated and expended. Internal democracy is an anathema. Loyalty is rewarded and dissent punished severely. All these undermine the democratic process. It is for this reason that the revised election law gives powers to the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) to oversee party primaries, which mandate it has advisedly avoided for fear of conflict of interest. But some independent oversight is required to guarantee fairness of party primaries. For now, we underscore the imperative for peaceful, free and fair party nominations. Parties must promote peace.  