Mombasa Senator Hassan Omar on Wednesday spelt out his plans for the county if elected governor in the August 8 General Election. His administration, he said, will reduce rates for small-scale traders, especially at the Kongowea open-air market, and increase taxes for high-income earners. Mr Omar said over-taxation of Mombasa residents had impoverished them and was a problem in the Coastal county. “The main problem at the moment is that citizens are not consulted on anything,” said Mr Omar yesterday, when he launched the manifesto in Mombasa. “The projects are imposed on them. “We want a situation where, before you start a water project for the people, we need to ask them whether it is tap water they are interested in or a swimming pool.” MANIFESTO INITIATIVE Mr Omar spoke at the Renaissance Centre, where he launched the Citizen Manifesto Initiative. It is based on the tenets espoused in the Constitution that recognise the importance of involving citizens in decision making. He said residents would be selected to represent each sub-county. Dr Steve Ouma, a consultant, said devolution came so that citizens can be involved in making decisions of the nation. “Citizens have to be in control of all the affairs of a county,” said Dr Ouma. “This initiative seeks to introduce a citizens’ control of the nation. “The era of being told that we are going to set up this and that project is over. We want citizens coming up with projects and taking them to the leaders for consideration.” BACK TO ELECTORATE Another consultant, Dr Felix Odimasi, said the responsibility of the leaders was to go back to the electorate and tell them what they will fulfil. Mr Omar has been keeping the Mombasa government on its toes over what he terms poor service delivery and development. The Ali Hassan Joho-led government, he added, was not inclusive. The Wiper Party Democratic Movement secretary-general is to square it out with Mr Joho of ODM, Vibrant Democratic Movement hopeful Hezron Awiti and Jubilee Party’s Suleiman Shahbal. Mr Omar, a bitter critic of Mr Joho’s leadership, ruled out joint National Super Alliance (Nasa) primaries to pick Mr Shahbal’s opponent and improve the outfit’s chances of retaining the seat. He said Coast is a Nasa zone and the fielding of candidates by its affiliates would not have JP penetrate the region. Nyali MP Awiti has settled on banker Hassan Bakari Mwamtoa as his running mate while Mr Joho is yet to name his deputy.  