Maison Fran aise, which houses the French Cultural Centre, is hugged on one side by Loita Street and by Monrovia Street on another in Nairobi s Central Business District (CBD). For a long time I have known it to provide a space for creative expression and learning but never imagined it to be a formidable contributor to the food scene in that part of town which I have oft found falls short of my expectations. It was therefore with great scepticism that I agreed to meet with a colleague there for a breakfast meeting, though I could not for the life of me tell you why because the CBD is, for me, a high stress quarter of the city where I rarely dare to venture.Restaurant Table 49 is a French caf on the ground floor of the building, sharing the expanse with an exhibition space and pouring out into the Alliance Fran aise. Because the floor it occupies doubles as an art gallery, the installations act as d cor pieces for the restaurant, which floods in with light from the cleverly situated courtyard. Minimalist furniture (including high tables and chairs) is scattered around the restaurant with no extra paraphernalia so it looks almost like a school canteen allowing the establishment a very easy air.CHEWY BREADThe menu at Table 49 offers typical caf type options ranging from soups to quiches, paninis, salads, sandwiches, desserts and some meaty French dishes. Bored with the choices, I ordered a tuna mayonnaise sandwich with fries and an iced latte. Now I have to say, the staffers here are incredibly charming and helpful and work at speeds little known to Nairobi. I didn t have to wait long at all for the menu, my drink and even the food.My meal was well presented on sterling white crockery but I knew right away I would struggle with it. Processed wheat has always been a challenge for me no matter how delicious, but white bread even more so. Sure enough, the baguette of my sandwich felt in my mouth exactly how I d feared. The near glutinous consistency of it made it difficult to chew and swallow, and I ended up removing the top half entirely. I must clarify that this was nobody s mistake other than my own as I should have asked what bread they have before placing my order. The tomato, cucumber and lettuce bits were very fresh, as well as the tuna filling, despite being large chunks of the fish mixed in mayonnaise and not a finer tuna paste which I usually prefer. The coffee was nothing to wax lyrical about but my general experience from the moment I sat at the table to when I stood to leave was okay. I felt I had gotten my money s worth even with the minor issues which really have to do with my personal preferences and not the overall quality of the food. It is worthy to note that Table 49 also runs a well-stocked bar and serve some really delicious potato chips. email print email print