Fondly remembered as Mama Boi from the character that she played in the soap opera Lies that Bind. You are single, what happened? I m back in the market. Things didn t work out as I thought they would. So we parted ways. Who was he and would ever use Tinder to date?Let him remain Owira s mystery man for now. Catch me dead on any dating app. I believe in knowing someone first, becoming friends and then moving forward if you think there might be a future. I always wonder why people nowadays cannot make the effort to find someone the traditional way. Your face is on very many billboards across the country?Yes. I have been on several billboards advertising for several companies including your company, Nation Media Group. Apart from advertising what else have you been doing? We just finished filming a new show called The Wives which will be aired in Africa and hopefully in the United States. I have also been co-directing and producing a few shows here and there. With the elections coming in August, how busy are you?To tell you the truth, it is the opposite. We are not busy and most people in the industry are worried. Our busy time is from April and with the elections a few months away, we have a lot of people who have not worked since January and might not get work may be until after the elections. What is your take on tabloids and the Kenya film industry?With a mother who is a teacher and also teaches drama in schools, you can expect her to read everything, but she understands and keeps me going. The Kenya film industry is growing but we still have a long way to go. We are building sets, renting houses to shoot a show, but the government is not helping much. Films should not be shot in South Africa yet the story depicts Kenya.People should also know that acting pays, I am an example. We need acting schools but for now we are learning through YouTube and Google what to do on set. We do have amazing actors in Kenya look at Lupita, she won an Oscar! email print email print