NEW JERSEY Kenyans living in the US who hail from Homa Bay County have thrown their weight behind a retired civil servant. This is the first time that Kenyans living in the diaspora have endorsed a candidate in party primaries. Speaking exclusively to the Nation in New Jersey soon after a closed-door meeting, the about 100 Homa Bay residents explained that it was their duty and responsibility to make their voice heard and their position known as to who their preferred candidate was in the current hotly contested nominations. “Our contributions to the development of the county through investments and remittances makes us stakeholders in this process despite the fact we will not be there physically to cast our votes. INVESTMENT ENVIRONMENT “We want the people of Homa Bay to elect a governor that will not only protect our investments but also accelerate development in the county,” said Amos Atonga. According to them, Governor Cyprian Awiti has failed in creating a conducive investment environment for them. For them, Sam Wakiaga is better placed to stimulate investment and use available resources well to benefit the locals. Three other candidates - Enos Bolo, Kabondo Kaspul MP Oyugi Magwanga and Cosmas Kanyadudi - are also in the race for the Raila Odinga-led party’s ticket for the seat. Amos Atonga, who lives in New Jersey, said Mr Wakiaga earned the residents’ support because of his track record on development. BEST CANDIDATE For his part, Maurice Onyuka, who hails from Rangwe, said Homa Bay needs a transformational leader who will deliver the much needed services in health care, education, agriculture and transport. His sentiments were echoed by Karachuonyo-born Jerry Randiek Jak’Onganga of New Jersey who blamed constant water problems in places such as Karachuonyo on poor planning by the Awiti administration. “I have talked with Wakiaga and I believe he is the best candidate Homa Bay has this time round,” Kasipul Kabondo native Robert Owino said. Mr Wakiaga is a former assistant director at the NIS. He operates several businesses in the county. The diaspora endorsement comes less than a week before the ODM party primary. Whoever wins the primary has the best chance of becoming the next governor because Homa Bay is an ODM stronghold. Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) officers recently raided county offices and arrested top finance officers in connection with embezzlement of public funds. VOTER LISTING Despite the law allowing progressive registration of citizens residing outside Kenya and the progressive realisation of their right to vote, the electoral agency has made little effort in actualising this requirement, thus locking out Kenyans in the diaspora from voting. In the 2013 elections, only 2,637 Kenyans living in Uganda, Tanzania, Rwanda and Burundi were allowed to vote from among those in the diaspora. At the time, the IEBC argued it had considered costs, impact of diaspora voting on domestic politics and logistics. The commission currently has 2,542 from these four countries as registered voters. An attempt to expand registration beyond East Africa to Southern Africa in the just concluded voter registration exercise did not bear positive results because it was reportedly marred by controversy. Kenyans in the diaspora are only allowed to vote for President and in a referendum. This, however, has not stopped them from actively engaging in the local politics.  