Counterfeiting and piracy are longstanding problems that are growing in scope and magnitude in Kenya and across the developing world. They are of concern to the government because of the negative impact on innovation and the threat to the well-being of consumers. Also of high concern are the significant resources being channelled to criminal organisations and corrupt groups. To the genuine businesses, they have a negative impact on the sales, brand and firm’s reputation. Consumers are exposed to significant health and safety risks, if they use substandard counterfeit and pirated products. Counterfeits are of concern to various government agencies, in addition to eroding the market share of the legitimate products. ILLICIT BREWS They violate laws relating to quality standards, brand protection, taxes, public health and national security. In the case of alcohol, counterfeits are also known to have a serious strain on social values of affected communities. Manufacturers have complained about the erosion of their market share, with about 60 per cent of the products in the market said to be illicit, which has serious public safety and revenue implications. The biggest challenge to most governments and manufacturers is the lack of an effective mechanism to identify illicit products. All products, whether illicit or legitimate, require a distribution network so as to reach the consumer, making the need for identification tools relevant. To address this challenge, the Kenya Revenue Authority has continually invested in product authentication and verification systems, starting with Excise stamps on tobacco products in 2003. EFFECTIVE SYSTEMS This led to an increase in revenue from Sh280 million a month in 2003 to Sh450 million a month by 2004. In 2013, this system was enhanced by the introduction of track and trace and production accounting platforms. With the rollout of the KRA’s Excisable Goods Management System (EGMS) in 2013, revenue on stamped products grew by Sh10 billion. In relation to spirits, Excise tax initially grew by more than 100 per cent (2013-2016). The use of digital tax stamps to fight illicit trade of excisable goods has proven to be highly effective. This has enabled the KRA to seize more than a million illicit products and apprehend some 1,000 offenders in a period of three years. The KRA has also established a market surveillance unit to undertake field enforcement. The unit has 75 officers, with the number expected to grow to 300 by 2017/18. AUTHENTICITY Following these successes, the EGMS has been expanded to cover other excisable goods, including beer, soda and other non-alcoholic carbonated drinks, juices and bottled water. Various government agencies are involved in ensuring that the products in the market are legitimate. The mandate of fighting illicit products belongs to the Anti-Counterfeit Agency, Kenya Bureau of Standards and KRA, with the support of the police. Manufacturers have voiced concern over the multiplicity of authentication systems by government agencies, which increase the cost of doing business. To address this concern, the industry has recommended that KRA’s system be used as proof of compliance with all government regulatory requirements. This position is based on the premise that EGMS has more built- in functionalities than any other authentication programme in use. MPs should support the initiative to develop a unified national stamping regime that takes care of all regulatory needs, including revenue collection, product quality/standards and anti-counterfeiting. INCREASED REVENUE The proposal has got support from the Task Force on Alcohol Abuse coordinated by the Ministry of Interior, which has approved legal amendments to underpin the framework. This will lessen the financial burden on businesses for compliance with stamping. The International Monetary Fund (IMF), in a review of Kenya’s performance, states that the system reinforces efficiency, transparency and accountability. It cites EGMS as an enabler in increased revenue collection. The IMF says the EGMS and iTax improved revenue collection in the first quarter of the financial year 2016/17. “Receipts of domestic VAT and Excise revenues were particularly high, reflecting improvements in revenue administration from the iTax and EGMS, new iTax measures, and the re-introduction of VAT withholding tax,” says the IMF review. Mr Korongo is a commissioner of Domestic Taxes Department at the Kenya Revenue Authority. Benson.Korongo@kra.go.ke  