Musica for Africa, a musical project by various artistes has released two versions of a song remembering Kenyans who were killed in the Garissa University attack. Titled ‘When Will it End’, its release has been timed to coincide with the second anniversary of the attack that remains fresh in the memory of many. The songs, combine the styles of soul and spirituals with progressive rock and the result is a unique blend of genres ordinarily worlds apart. Musica For Africa is a brainchild of by Mariano Schiavolini, composer, music producer and member of the 70’s progressive rock group, Celeste. His music is very dedicated, with each song channeling grand and often humanitarian themes. For this reason he was able to win the collaboration of various talented and influential South African artists who, in addition to sharing their passion for music, lent their own humanitarian sensibilities to the cause. For this the project was called Musica for Africa, being both for and by the people of the African continent. TWO VERSIONS   The songs, whose lyrics are written by the English lyricist, Nikki Turner, touch on important themes, one of which being the freedom of religion. The song “Where Will it End” is a hymn dedicated to the victims and their families of the Garissa University College attack of April 2, 2015, in which 148 people were killed and 79 were injured. “We believe that we must all feel united with them, and to remember those who were so young and full of aspirations, killed not indiscriminately, but merely for their religion. “We made two version of ‘Where Will it End’. The first was sung by two African reggae artists: South African native, Thuthukani Cele, former keyboard player for Lucky Dube, and Congolese artist, Mermans Mosengo, member of the international group Playing for Change. Together they provided lead vocals over English and Zulu harmonies sung by the Witt’s University choir of Johannesburg, which specializes in Ethnic African music, he said” For the second version, lead vocals were sung by New York City soul artist, Clayton Bryant, over a magnificent backdrop by the Soweto Gospel Choir, world-renowned for their international collaborations with the likes of groups like U2. Bryant himself has collaborated with artists such as Bruce Springsteen, Elton John, Sting, Aretha Franklin, Michael Jackson, and Whitney Houston. Both versions of ‘Where Will it End’. will be released for the two-year anniversary of the Kenya tragedy, and will each feature a music video, filmed in the USA and in South Africa. Listen to 'When Will it End' here.  