Rift Valley Region claimed the overall team title at this year s Brookside National Secondary Schools Term One Games which ended on Saturday at State House Girls and Nairobi School. The region emerged tops with a total of 82 points edging out last year s winners and hosts, Nairobi Region, who were placed second with 60 points while Western Region finished third with 55 points.Central and Nyanza regions tied for fourth place with 51 points each while Coast Eastern and Northern Eastern occupied the next three places in that order at the end of the week-long competition consisting of eight regions.Rift Valley (formerly Mau) claimed the boys basketball title, boys hockey title and also dominated in cross country, hepthalon and decathlon. In what proved to be one of the most competitive championships in years, past champions reclaimed their titles with upsets also witnessed. Coast s Kaya Tiwi were the only 2016 winners who stood tall as they successfully defended their girls basketball crown after a hard fought 48-35 win over Western s St Brigid s Kiminini. The fact that we are the only school that retained its title shows how competitive these games. We also had to dig deep to ensure we maintain our status as champions, Kaya coach Philip Onyango said.Upper Hill and Sinyolo Girls relinquished their boys basketball and girls hockey gongs respectively. Last year s boys hockey champions, Friends School Kamusinga, and 15s rugby 2016 holders Bungoma High failed to reach the nationals.Laiser Hill s return to the national scene was memorable as they reclaimed the boys basketball title after a thrilling 51-43 win over Upper Hill. The win saw them lift their sixth national title, having last won the title in 2012.Laiser s Elvis Ssentongo and Tiwi s Maria Komba grabbed the basketball boys and girls Most Valuable Player (MVP) awards. Ssentgono was instrumental in Laiser Hill s comeback-win against their nemesis Upper. We are now going back to get the East African title come August, Laiser captain Sheldon Ouma said. St Anthony s Boys Kitale, who also returned to Rift Valley Region from defunct Nzoia Region also reclaimed the trophy they last won in 2012 to make it four national titles.Sinyolo s goal poacher Alice Awiti and Kisumu Day s Joshua Omondi bagged the MVP awards in girls and boys hockey respectively. Despite Laiser losing the 15s rugby final to Kakmega High, prop Kennedy Nzilu walked away with the discipline s MVP accolade.The reigning Safaricom Sports Personality of the Year Awards (Soya) schools girls player of the year, Hadassah Gichovi, led Nairobi swimming team to victory as she grabbed the best swimmer award as Emmanuel Ndonga took the boys prize.Kenya will be represented at the East Africa games by three teams in hockey (boys and girls), 15s rugby and girls basketball while only the top two teams will take part in boys basketball. email print email print