Central Regional Police Coordinator Larry Kieng has raised concern over rising cases of attacks on aspirants. Mr Kieng said that detectives are investigating separate attacks on two parliamentary aspirants from Kabete, Kiambu County, and Tetu, Nyeri County, on Friday. "There is a problem and we are working very fast to investigate these attacks. It is a political season so we expect people might stage manage these things so we cannot rule out anything. Nevertheless, we will investigate all possibilities and leads we get," he said. Ms Ann Kanyi sustained injuries to her back and leg after four men assaulted her. Also, the Tetu parliamentary aspirant's driver, a Mr Mathenge, was injured during the 5pm incident in Mbaaini village. BAN ON NIGHT MEETINGS This is the third time she is being attacked after her meetings at Kigwandi and Gichira areas were disrupted by young men suspected to be her rivals supporters. “I thank God because I heard one of the attackers saying shoot her. But the one who was instructed resisted but told me to quit politics. They said mama uachane na hii kiti si yako. Iko na mwenyewe (Madam, this seat does not belong to you, leave it alone)," Ms Kanyi said. She reported the matter at Gachatha police post and recorded a statement before seeking treatment at a hospital in Nyeri town. "I was from a meeting when a grey Fielder coming from the opposite direction blocked us. Its registration numbers were covered. "Four masked armed men jumped out and came running. Within three minutes I had been terrorized enough. They later escaped after area residents responded after I screamed,” she said. Deputy County Commissioner Herman Shambi confirmed the incident and said she will be accorded enough security. Mr Shambi also banned all night meetings in the area as a security measure. He further asked Ms Kanyi to share out her meeting schedule for provision of security officers. DEPLOY OFFICERS Former Mathira MP Ephriam Maina called on the Ministry of Interior to deploy enough security officers during the Jubilee nominations in Nyeri County, saying there might be violence. “I am reaching out to the Interior Cabinet Secretary Joseph Nkaissery to consider deploying a special security force in Nyeri. We do not want any bloodshed,” Mr Maina agued. Recently, supporters of Mr Maina and those of his rival Daniel Wamahiu clashed in Nyeri town County Commissioner Oningoi ole Sossio asked aspirants and their supporters to portray civility during and after nominations; failure to which violence perpetrators will be prosecuted. He also singled out Tetu, Mathira and Nyeri town constituencies as hotspots. So far, banners and posters of hopefuls have been damaged.  