Kenya ladies golf champion Kellie Gachaga returns to action in the local golf scene this weekend after last week s Africa Junior Championship in Harare Zimbabwe where both the boys and girls teams performed poorly.Gachaga, from Muthaiga Golf Club, is among 83 ladies drawn at Sigona Golf Club for the Sigona Ladies Invitation.The youngster has a chance to redeem herself after her poor show in Zimbabwe where her best round in 72 holes, was a four over par 76 in the final round. Her team finished third out of four countries while in the individual title, she managed to finish fourth overall. She is drawn at 9.38am along with club-mate Christina Andersen and L. Mbuthia. Other leading players also drawn to vie for the top prize include Limuru s Mwongeli Nzioka, home player Rachna Patel, Kiambu s Joyce Wanjiru and the nine-year-old Channelle Wangari from Vet Lab Sports Club. The ladies competition will be followed from 11am by the men s subsidiary event which has also attracted over 80 players. Meanwhile, the Johnnie Walker golf series marks its seventh leg at Vet Lab Sports Club where over 200 players will be battling it out for an array of prizes in the 18-hole stableford event. Among those drawn includes the club s leading amateur golfers Robinson Owiti and national team player Edwin Mudanyi. Because of the large entry, teeing off is set for 6.28am on both first and 10th tee.Another big field was drawn at Limuru Country Club where the par-72 course is the venue for the Britam golf tournament where among those vying for the overall prize include former Golfer of The Year champion John Karichu among other leading golfers. At Karen Country Club on Friday, the Architectural Association of Kenya (AAK), a professional body that seeks to promote the building industry in the country, marks its Golden Jubilee dubbed [email&#160;protected] with the 18th Edition of its Annual Golf Tournament which gets under way at 9am. Down at the Coast, Leisure Lodge Beach and Golf Resort hosts the Waziri Cup on Sunday while Nyali Golf and Country Club will be the venue for the Coast Hospice. Away in Eldoret, newly elected captain Moses Tanui will be hosting the Kenya Seed company sponsored tournament which comes two months after another one held at Kitale Club. And in Machakos, it will be the turn of the Kenya Civil Aviation Authority tournament that has also attracted golfers from Machakos as well as other clubs in Nairobi. email print email print Daily Nation Sport gives you a list of this weekend's golf fixtures: