Q. If an employer terminates my contract summarily without notice and no reason is given on the termination letter, what recourse do I have as an employee and what recourse does the employer have as well? I had a permanent position and had worked for close to two years.  According to the employment legislation, summary dismissal takes place when an employer terminates the services of an employee without notice or with less notice than that to which the employee is entitled. Before termination of employment, an employer is required to explain the reasons for the termination. An employer is also required to provide the opportunity for hearing representations which the employee may make in response to the grounds based on which the termination is contemplated. Grounds for summary dismissal comprise forms of gross misconduct such as being absent from work without leave; intoxication at work; negligence of duty; insulting language or behaviour towards an employer or supervisor, and knowingly refusing to obey instructions within one’s scope of work. It is not possible to fathom every form of gross misconduct, and therefore the list cannot be exhaustive. You have indicated that no reason was given for your summary dismissal, and it would also appear that you were not provided with an opportunity to be heard. There are a number of means though which you could address your grievance. You may consider appealing the decision in accordance with your company’s HR policy, seeking the assistance of a union if you are a member of one, presenting your matter to the labour office or filing a suit with the Industrial Court. It would be prudent to choose an option based on what is at stake for you against time and financial implications. Incidentally, even though a reason for your dismissal was not given, how did the matter arise? While capricious employers do exist, it is uncommon to find an individual summarily dismissed for no cause whatsoever. As you address the matter, remember that the lever upon which you may exert the greatest influence is your own conduct.  