Those of us who saw the politics of the 1970s, 1980s and 1990s will have to admit that a lot of things have changed in terms of the dynamics involved in political culture in Kenya. It is true that one of the most basic characteristics of culture is the fact that it is not static but is continually dynamic. Regarding Kenyan political expression, the dynamism is truly significant. One may want to remember just the other day when political dress code was a little more formal or at least semi-formal. Today, political dress code is brightly coloured shirts that are not tacked in and tight trousers for all generations. At least most of the ladies tend to keep the formal though flowery long dress which is quite dignified. This is of course not to say that the men are not properly dressed. It is just that I am not able to get over people of a certain generation in shirts that are not properly tacked in. The dress code is not all that has changed. There is much more. Holding political office in itself has become more attractive than it ever was. Even when multiparty politics was taking place in the early 1990s, only the courageous and daring ones offered themselves as candidates. That time the pay of a member of parliament was quite insignificant compared to now. I do know that some of those who offered themselves that time believed in something more than just the money. MANY BENEFITS Holding political office today means not just earning the title “mheshimiwa” but also earning a good salary and many other benefits. As such, wanting to become something in the political platform has become a fashionable enterprise and one that is attracting many people of all ages. The glamour that comes with it is irresistible for a lot of people and particularly because most Kenyans see this as a way of entering into the realm of those who eat the “piece of cake”. What I find most amusing at this present moment as we gear up for the elections in August is the amount of energy and resources that are already being spent towards that goal. Look at the branded vehicles that one sees along the roads a whole four months before the actual elections. This trend seems to go very well with those shirts which are not tacked in that I was talking about. It is quite clear that there is going to be very little serious work that will be done between now and the time of the elections. I wonder is this a mark of civilization? Branding is good and bright shirts are good. Serious work must, however, be done.  Fr Dominic Wamugunda is dean of students, University of Nairobi. wamugundaw@uonbi.ac.ke  