Newcomers trounced incumbent MPs and the old guard as curtains came down on the hotly contested ODM nominations in Nyanza. The voting, marred by confusion, drama and injuries dealt incumbents a major blow. Mr James Orengo and his Homa Bay counterpart Moses Kajwang’ were the only senators who survived the exercise in the region. RESULTS NULLIFIEDIn disputed results across board, governors Cyprian Awiti (Homa Bay) and Okoth Obado (Migori) had been declared winners. However, the results were nullified after claims of rigging from their opponents Oyugi Magwanga and Ochilo Ayacko, respectively. Siaya Governor Cornel Rasanga also won the ODM ticket with his close rival Nicholas Gumbo crying foul. In Kisumu, Governor Jack Ranguma was beaten by Senator Anyang’ Nyong’o for the seat. However, Mr Ranguma was also declared winner by the county deputy returning officer causing confusion. AWITI WINS TICKETNyando MP Fred Outa replaced Prof Nyong’o as Kisumu ODM nominee for the Senate seat while journalist Ben Okello will fly the ODM flag in Migori. Nyakach MP Aduma Owuor lost to Mr Tom Osimbo while the former Kenya Secondary School Heads Association chairman John Awiti won the Kisumu West ODM ticket. Mr Ken Obura (Kisumu Central) will defend his seat on an ODM ticket after beating six other aspirants while Prof Ayiecho Olweny will fly the flag in Muhoroni. In Siaya, MPs Omondi Muluan (Alego Usonga) and Jakoyo Midiwo (Gem) were beaten by newcomers Samuel Atandi and businessman Elisha Odhiambo respectively. Dr Gideon Ochanda (Bondo) had celebrated a win that was later nullified and his rival nominated MP Oburu Oginga declared victor. MBADI'S VICTORYIn Suba South, ODM chairman John Mbadi fought a close contest to beat Mr Odinga’s former chief of staff Caroli Omondi. Ms Millie Odhiambo was one of the few MPs who retained her seat in Suba North. Mr David Arunga, a former ambassador, won the nominations and is set to replace the Karachuonyo MP James Rege should he win in August while Dr Lillian Gogo beat Rangwe MP George Oner. Mr Charles Ongondo won the Kasipul parliamentary race, while Ndhiwa MP Agostino Neto lost to Mr Martin Owino. Mr Peter Kaluma survived the onslaught on his counterparts to retain his Homa Bay Town seat. DALMAS DEFEATEDDr Pamela Odhiambo beat Denitah Ghati for the Migori woman representative position while Ms Rozah Buyu floored the incumbent Rose Nyamunga (Kisumu). Dr Christine Ombaka retained her Siaya woman representative seat after she beat Ms Florence Aluodo in a controversial win. Former Cabinet minister Dalmas Otieno was felled by a newcomer Paul Abuor in the Rongo parliamentary race. Awendo MP Jared Kopiyo lost to Mr Walter Sirawa while the Uriri parliamentary ticket went to Mr Mark Nyamita. Mr Nyamita is set to replace MP John Kobado.  