Amani National Congress (ANC) party has called off nominations in Malava constituency. This is after two parliamentary aspirants, Caleb Sunguti and Isaac Shaviya, accused the party of appointing elections officials from other parties to oversee the party’s primaries. The duo caused a scuffle at the party offices which led to the arrest of two individuals. Speaking in Kakamega town after a closed door meeting with various aspirants and election officials, ANC Commissioner in charge on nominations Alutalala Mukhwana said the law allows them to nominate clerks, presiding officers from other parties. “We have been forced to call of election in Malava to avoid any doubts. We will arrange for a day when the exercise will be repeated,” he said Mr Mukhwana said despite the hitches, the party primaries went on well in 11 other constituencies. In Ikolomani, Alex Mukabwa aspirant for the senatorial seat and Idakho Central MP aspirant Liyaya Cadious called on the national elections board to cancel the whole exercise and call for a repeat. Mr Mukabwa accused party officials of taking part in the exercise adding that some areas had not received ballot papers by as late as 4pm. “There is no level playing ground. The whole process is a sham. Ballot boxes are being found in personal cars yet in some areas people have waited until they have gone home,” he said Mr Cadious said the whole process should be nullified adding that in some regions names for woman representatives or MCAs were missing from the ballot papers. “We are not satisfied with the process. It’s sad we have been blaming other parties yet ours is the worst,” he said County chairman Julius Arunga admitted that ballot papers were delivered very late thus causing confusion. “We received ballot materials today in the morning and the process of sorting them out took a lot of time thus causing the delay,” he said He went on: “We take responsibility that we could have done better. This being a young party we will rectify the mess in future.” A spot check by Nation revealed that most regions started voting as late as 3pm due to lack of register, missing names, lack of ballot papers among other reasons.  