Former chairperson of the Kenya Industrial Estates (KIE), Rehema Dida Jaldesa, is the Jubilee Party candidate in the Isiolo woman representative’s race. Ms Dida, who is the widow of former Moyale MP Guracha Galgalo who died in the 2005 Marsabit plane crash, trounced the incumbent woman rep Tiyah Galgalo in the hotly contest race during Wednesday's primaries. She garnered 18,361 votes against Ms Galgalo's 10,831. While announcing the results at Isiolo Pastoral Centre, county returning officer Guyo Tuke also announced Mr Abdul Bahari and Mr Mohammed Liban respectively as the gubernatorial and senatorial Jubilee Party flag bearers. Pundits had earlier predicted a win for Ms Dida who came second in the 2013 elections, since provisional results which trickled in since Wednesday night gave her an early lead. But Ms Galgalo, who had earlier expressed confidence that she would win, disputed the results, saying the primaries were marred with malpractice. JUBILATION Ms Dida won in almost all the polling stations within the county. It was jubilation at the tallying centre where Ms Dida’s supporters celebrated her win. "We will ensure that Jubilee Party will win majority of the seats in the county," said Ms Dida after being declared winner. Isiolo North MP Joseph Samal also clinched the party’s ticket to defend his seat in the August 8 elections. Mr Samal polled 11,714 votes against his closest challenger, Abdi Adan Godana, who garnered 10,356. There was also jubilation from Mr Samal’s supporters who celebrated the neck-to-neck results saying they were free and fair. NARC-K CANDIDATE Isiolo North returning officer Gerald Meme said Ms Lucy Mworia, who mistakenly appeared on the Jubilee ballot paper for the same post yet she is contesting on a Narc Kenya ticket, polled 90 votes. In his acceptance speech, the Isiolo North MP thanked his supporters, saying his victory was guaranteed despite campaigning for only four days. Mr Samal had been ailing for the last two months, and it was not until last week that he embarked on his campaigns. In Isiolo South Constituency, Mr Abdub Mollu emerged winner after garnering 2,959 votes against his main rival, Mr Nuh Mohammed Ibrahim, who got 2,092 votes. Ms Dida contested for the same seat in 2013 on a URP ticket and narrowly lost to Ms Galgalo. Consequently, President Kenyatta appointed him to head the Ewaso Ng’iro North Development Authority (Ennda). Ms Dida will battle it out with Mrs Betsy Kaari Mburugi who is vying on a PNU ticket in the August 8 polls.  