Aspirants participating in President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Jubilee Party primaries on Friday will only get their certificates after ratification from the party’s top organ, which is chaired by the Head of State. Secretary-General Raphael Tuju said the move was part of an elaborate strategy to curb violence and rigging. “Our process is so regimented I would say it is impossible for anyone to rig,” said Mr Tuju on Sunday at Multimedia University of Kenya in Nairobi. “Some people might try but it won’t help a thing.” The top official warned aspirants against seeking his favour though he is the one to sign the certificates. “I don’t have any powers to award any certificate,” said Mr Tuju. BANNED ASPIRANTS The party has also banned its aspirants from campaigning after 7pm on April 19, which will be 36 hours to the April 21 primaries. Further, a supporter will not be allowed into a polling station with campaign materials promoting the bid of any aspirant. “We will apply all the rules that will be applicable during the General Election in August,” said Mr Tuju. After its eight million members cast their ballots in 33 counties for 8,012 aspirants on April 21, Mr Tuju said, the results will be announced at the tallying centre, agents allowed to take pictures of the results and then transmitted to the constituency office. The constituency returning officer will then provide a provisional certificate and the results forwarded to the National Elections Board. UNIQUE SERIAL NUMBERS The NEB will verify the polling booth and ballot paper’s unique serial numbers before the National Executive Council makes the final declaration.The party has also vowed to be ruthless to any candidate linked with violence. A slight link to rowdy youth, including phone conversations and/or bailing them out once from jail, will be used as evidence against any aspirant, Mr Tuju warned. Do not even dare hire youth and ask them to attack your opponent or cause chaos at a polling station, the former Cabinet minister went on. “Do not test our resolve to deal with violence,” said Mr Tuju. “We will disqualify you. And we do not intend to repeat our nomination after somebody brings violence to us. STATE-OF-THE- ART BALLOT PAPERS “Do not even dare bail out these people, because you will be providing evidence in the case against you.” The party has developed what it said are state-of-the-art ballot papers that have five security features, including unique serial numbers. That way, officials believe, aspirants and party supporters can tell for sure how many people voted at a particular polling station and correspond it with the tally announced. “The people giving us the most problems, those complaining a lot about rigging, are those that do not know what to do with us,” said Mr Tuju. “They have been in a flawed process before (and want to try the same).” PREPARED FOR NOMINATIONS On Sunday, Nairobi governor aspirant Peter Kenneth’s running mate Linet Mirehane said they were ready and their people on the ground were prepared for the nominations. “Our structures are in place,” said Ms Mirehane. “We are confident.” Added the former Nairobi councillor: “We have done our homework and are encouraged with the feedback we have received. Jubilee is very strong in the city and residents should brace themselves for a new dawn.” Meanwhile, Mr Tuju revealed that “three to four” people were barred from contesting on the party ticket and have been asked to appear before the elections board.   Party designed and printed ballot papers overseas to assure aspirants of a fair poll.