Members of the Nairobi County Assembly (MCAs) have criticised the executive over what they termed as poor budget implementation as they passed the 2017/18 budget estimates. The Nairobi county government approved budget estimates of the FY 2017/18 of Sh35.9 billion where Sh24.12billion has been allocated to recurrent expenditure and Sh11.80 billion for development. During Thursday’s special sitting, the MCAs also passed the Nairobi City County Appropriation Bill 2017 that authorises use of Sh35.907 billion out of the county revenue fund and its application towards the service of the year ending on the June 30, next year. The MCAs complained of lack of tangible development in the wards despite the assembly passing previous budgets on time. Kahawa West MCA Ngaruiya Chege told the Assembly that they have been passing the budget religiously over the last four years but the executive does not implement. Mr Ngaruiya said that the ward development fund has been a thorny issue as the executive has failed to implement projects hence making it difficult for the MCAs to campaign. “We play our role in ensuring that budgets are passed on time but the executive have taken us for a ride as implementation is not seen. During the burial of Nyeri Governor Nderitu Gachagua, the President Opposition leader criticised the county assemblies for frustrating county governments. But it should now be known that we have done our part,” said Mr Ngaruiya. The budget has allocated Sh1.73 billion towards the Ward Development Fund kitty where the ward reps urged the executive to roll out projects for the next elected members. Nominated MCA Caren Wanjiku said that the executive had been rolling over projects to the next financial years instead of fully utilising the money. She cited health which has got the lion share of Sh5.736 billion of not utilising its funds despite the department having been faced by acute drug shortage and lack of essential services. Nominated MCA Mohamed Abdi said that failure by the executive to implement projects will serve as a platform to take Governor Evans Kidero home. The chairman of the budget committee Michael Ogada said that since the coming to life of the devolved units, one of the areas that the county government has missed expectations and generally performed below expectation is the budget preparations, approval and implementation.  