For the past few weeks, rains have been pounding several parts of the country to the delight of both livestock and crop farmers.To livestock farmers, it is time for the grass to grow once again after months of dry weather. But with the rains come fresh challenges for farmers as the young, fresh fodder can cause several problems to animals.Normally, the fodder is watery and does not have enough fibre, leading to improper digestion. Therefore, the animal does not get to chew cud at the required times of between 55-70 times. This makes the secretion of butyric acid minimal, says livestock expert Phillip Oketch of SNV in Meru. When butyric acid isn t secreted to its optimum level, there will be a high secretion of milk that has very low butter fat hence low density, and when this kind of milk is delivered at the collection centre, the graders will automatically advice that the animal is suffering from mastitis or any other disease because they are not technically trained, Oketch explains. According to him, most co-operatives don t have adequate finances to employ qualified personnel.With his income threatened, a farmer will end up engaging a veterinary officer to diagnose and treat the animals. The tragedy is that most of the vets in the villages are not qualified as some are animal health practitioners learning from experience and the only thing they know is to inject different doses. The farmer, therefore, loses one or two months of milk as he treats a cow that is not sick, Oketch says. LOW DENSITY MILKHe advises that since the young fodder is rich in protein that is the Total Digestible Nutrients and Crude Protein farmers should mix it with other fodder like hay and silage, which contain dry matter. These help an animal chew cud. Farmers can also purchase wheat bran or maize bran to supplement the fibre, he says.Rains also bring challenges when it comes to housing. Mary Ng ang a, a quality trainer with Policy and Market observes that most cow barns are improperly constructed. As such, the feeding troughs are not roofed and when it rains, feeds are soaked in water. The animals, thus, end up lacking fibre, meaning that butyric acid is depressed. This, in turn, results in low-density milk. If hygiene is further not maintained in the cow barn by failing to clean dung, bacteria multiplies,compromising the health of the animal, she says.According to her, if an animal s body has wet dung, the cow will spend most of its energy keeping itself warm at the expense of producing milk. If the sleeping area is also not well-roofed, the animal will not rest. It is recommended that the rest period should be 13-14 hours, which is critical for the animal to chew cud and secret more milk .Poor roofing at the feeding area will also force the animal not to eat or drink for fear of being rained on, and this reduces production.Milking in a poorly constructed structure that leaks during the rainy season compromises milk hygiene. CHECK THE DUNG The situation can be worsened if milk takes a while before getting to the collection centre as multiplication of bacteria is fast. This turns the milk into lactic acid and it clots during the alcohol test, Oketch says.Some farmers also use chaff cutters to chop fodder into fine particles. The fine feeds have little fibre for the cow to chew cud. The optimal temperature that a cow needs is about 15 degrees Celsius, according to Oketch. In most cases, farmers construct a shed that cannot protect the animals from severe weather. Therefore, during the rainy season, cows, goats and even sheep suffer from pneumonia, he says, adding other diseases to expect besides mastitis and pneumonia, is diarrhoea. Oketch advises farmers to also constantly check the dung produced by their animals to know how well feeds have been digested. When the rumen is working well, more feeds ferment, and less undigested feeds pass to be digested in the small intestines or get fermented in the hindgut leading to increased gas and acid production which then changes the consistency and appearance of manure. Excess hindgut fermentation causes diarrhoea or frothy manure, he says, adding if the dung is yellowish/brownish, it means the animals are not getting enough proteins, vitamins and minerals, but if it is greenish, they are getting enough supplements.***Types of dung 1.) Watery: It has no structure or shape and comes out splashing meaning that the cow has metabolic diseases like coccidiosis. 2.) Somehow thicker but watery: One can recognise the structure and when the dung drops on the ground, it splashes wide open which is an indication of poor balance in the ration. Or it can be caused by spring pasture grazing grazing in wet areas. This kind of dung is only acceptable on cows with high production as their digestion is always very fast. 3.) Dung is thicker and has a light popping sound when they hit the floor forming a clear pad about 2cm thick, which is only ideal for high producing cows. High producing cows eat more, and the rumen content pass down the digestive track more quickly and so more undigested feed may show up in the manure 4.) Dung is very thick and stiff producing a loud popping sound during defecation. It forms a pad that shows a ring and doesn t spread much. The score is not acceptable for lactating cows but is ideal for dry cows and heifer. email print email print Lack of additional quality feeds, leads to lower energy level and the cows use body reserves to produce metabolic heat interfering with milk production.