This is my last piece for the Saturday Nation as a contracted columnist. I started writing for this paper in early 2013 when Denis Galava invited me as a columnist. Since then, I have worked very well with two other editors: Tim Wanyonyi and Ng’ang’a Mbugua. SOCIETY'S ILLSOver the years, we have explored a variety of issues, many of which touch generally on our society and its politics. We have focused on individuals and institutions, seeking to highlight the intricate intersections between them, the achievements and failures, challenges and opportunities. In all cases, I was guided by convictions, some that I deliberately sought to see realised in society. This was most apparent in my political commentary that attracted the most heat. OBJECTIVITY The heat came from some who agreed with me as much as those who disagreed vehemently. I sought, whenever possible, to nurture creative tension that could sustain reflection. Most Kenyans assume that a columnist must be an ‘objective’ commentator, one who balances everything they write about with mathematical precision. In current media practice, being objective has been reduced to balancing blame or equally apportioning credit to both sides of an issue. I don’t share this approach. I think that the mathematical finesse with which our media seeks to apportion blame or allocate credit equally has undermined its capacity to be the conscience of the nation; to be the sector that identifies and fights for a particular moral compass for our society. ARTICULATING THOUGHTSI did not pretend to be ‘objective’ as defined above. I took a position in many cases and advanced unapologetically my opinion. For above everything else, a columnist is contracted to articulate an opinion on matters of national importance. I, however, pushed my argument while being careful not to intentionally lie or ignore compelling evidence that contradicted my assumptions. I know there are readers who did not like or appreciate my thoughts and who, therefore, passionately disagreed with me. NEW TASK Some simply pigeonholed me into a particular box. Others engaged me and, while I may not have responded to all who wrote, I nevertheless appreciated their thoughts. The highlight for me was a social media recommendation by someone who disagreed with me that I should change my name to Satanwin. I had such a hearty laugh that day. But now, pan-African duty calls and my professional career turns a new and even more challenging page. I have received many messages of goodwill and people have wished me nothing but success. I have come to appreciate many individuals and institutions who have over the years shaped my growth. ACKNOWLEDGEMENT They are simply too many to mention by name. But this has been humbling indeed. Of course, Kenyatta University and University of Nairobi have been instrumental in growing the academic curiosity that now sends me to Council for the Development of Social Science Research in Africa in Dakar, Senegal. Other institutions like the African Leadership Centre nurtured the visibility that any young dreamer aspires to. Teachers, friends and colleagues across the continent and beyond shaped me in ways that remain particularly strong. I must confess that most of them are not Kenyans. My country tends to be too slow to appreciate young talent. Yet still, I owe strong seeds of academic curiosity to Professors Eric Aseka and the late Mosonik arap Korir. ROLE MODELSThe key distinction all my mentors held was that their nationalism was suffused with a fine dose of pan-African conviction and commitment. Many of those who have inspired me have been very generous with their prayers, trust and best wishes. They have been of exemplary example and demanded of me very high standards. I hope to continue to satisfy the expectations. And of course at the Saturday Nation, the labour of Ben Ouma and Julius Sigei has been fulfilling and appreciated. For me, the real journey is only now beginning. So this can only be kwaheri ya kuonana to my readers. Godwin R. Murunga teaches Development Studies at the University of Nairobi. gmurunga@gmail.com  