Lawyer Ahmednasir Abdullahi on Wednesday recorded a statement at the Kilimani Police Station, Nairobi, sensationally accusing Director of Criminal Investigations Ndegwa Muhoro of planning to kill him. The lawyer alleged that Mr Muhoro had assembled a team of five police officers to kill him, among them a “Mr Kamau”, adding that the five are well known for “carrying out executions on behalf of Mr Muhoro”. He now wants Inspector-General of Police Joseph Boinnet to form an independent team of officers outside the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) to investigate the DCI boss. He alleged that he got the information about the “plot” from a trusted senior police officer attached to the DCI, who “revealed” that Mr Muhoro had planned to end the lawyer’s life before the end of March but the plan failed because Mr Abdullahi was out of the country. AUSTRALIA VISIT “I left the country on Friday, March 24, to attend a Commonwealth lawyers’ conference in Australia, then travelled to Sydney, where I stayed for three days until March 30,” Mr Abdullahi said in the statement. He said he later travelled to Dubai and returned to Kenya on April 2, a day before the call from the senior police officer leaking the information. “My contact warned me to take the information very seriously,” Mr Abdullahi said in the statement, alleging that the officer had told him that the team had been monitoring his phones and discovered that he was out of the country. Mr Abdullahi, who spent three hours at the Kilimani DCI offices, alleged that in a briefing to the team assembled to kill him, Mr Muhoro had said that the lawyer was an obstacle to him and his partners in a dispute involving land belonging to Tatu City in Kiambu. UNHAPPY WITH RULING “He was unhappy about a ruling delivered by the court that stopped investigations he had ordered relating to my pupillage,” said the lawyer. “In the ruling, the court expressly ruled that Mr Muhoro was acting in bad faith and that he was malicious in ordering the investigations.” He added that the investigations were meant to favour people who wanted to steal the land. “The scheme designed by Mr Muhoro opened two files and made contradicting recommendations, derailing the prosecution of the fraudsters to date,” he said, adding that he had given further details to the ODPP on March 7, 2016. The lawyer further claimed that the DCI boss had been paid Sh50 million as a bribe and that he was promised 30 acres of the land once the matter is rescued. Mr Abdullahi, while requesting for the intervention of Mr Boinnet, said the case cannot be handled by Mr Muhoro’s junior officers, as he is likely to "pollute and contaminate the findings". Mr Muhoro rubbished Mr Abdullahi's claims and said he would not say much about it as the matter was still in court. “There is a court order restraining him from talking about the matter. There is a case in court and it has to be concluded,” Mr Muhoro said.  