Experts remain divided on the amnesty window given to tax cheats holding cash and property abroad. During his Budget speech, Treasury Cabinet Secretary Henry Rotich talked about the pardon, adding six more months to the one year window that was initially meant to expire after December 31, last year. Some tax experts are concerned that the move could allow high net worth individuals to launder their wealth — some thought to have been acquired illegally — by returning it to Kenya. TAX AMNESTYThis could mean that even wealth acquired through corrupt means and stashed in overseas accounts can be brought back home. No questions are asked on the source of the wealth under the amnesty. Transparency International Executive Director Samuel Kimeu said the assumption that all the wealth stashed abroad is clean may create loopholes for criminals and corrupt leaders with wealth abroad to bring it back to Kenya. “A lot of money is kept by Kenyans overseas and the question of where and how the wealth was obtained is important. Tax amnesty must not overshadow the crucial element of fighting crime,” Mr Kimeu said. MONEY LAUNDERINGConcerns are also rife that the window opened at a time when the country is faced with a hot electoral contest. The amnesty may simply allow stolen billions stashed abroad repatriated to run the show and later taken back abroad. Audit firm Ernst and Young in its analysis of the amnesty warned that the process was prone to abuse. “The amnesty should be undertaken with precaution as there is the potential for abuse with respect to money laundering under the pretext of repatriating assets,” the firm wrote on March 15 last year, a day after the Kenya Revenue Authority held a stakeholders meeting to get feedback on the guidelines provided for the amnesty. The amnesty covers taxes, penalties or interest in respect of any year of income ending on or before December 31, 2016. Once those with wealth hidden abroad have declared it, they will be issued with a certificate to declare their tax evasion sins forgiven. EACC'S ROLEAlthough the guidelines provide that a person will be required to make full disclosure of the foreign income and the underlying assets and liabilities, those testing the waters may also choose to only partly declare their wealth. In the tax circles, the move remains suspicious given its “religious” approach where the tax man offers forgiveness to tax evaders, allowing them to walk away scot free.But, at the same time, KRA says it will approve or decline applications for the amnesty, meaning some process will be followed. It remains unclear how long the taxman will take to respond to an application for amnesty. KRA Deputy Commissioner in-charge of Policy Unit James Ojee recently told journalists that other government agencies will be involved, meaning those who declare their wealth may still find themselves trailed by the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission or Interpol. TAX COMPLIANCEHe however denied that the scheme was a trap to catch those who have stashed ill-gotten wealth abroad. “For those who will not take the offer, we have heavily invested in multinational information gathering frameworks to enable us get them. "It will not take long and this will mean full compliance enforcement processes, which we are saving them from by this pardon. The Americans are already tracing their citizens even here in Kenya through Fatca,” Mr Ojee said during a stakeholder engagement forum for the tax amnesty. Nikhil Hira, a tax expert at Deloitte and Touche, told the Sunday Nation that while the practice has been done in other tax jurisdictions to promote compliance, Kenya’s had many concerns including the window to pour back stolen wealth. Kenya is eyeing what some estimates put at $1.2 billion (Sh124 billion) thought to have been looted from the taxpayer and stashed in offshore bank accounts.  