Funyula MP Paul Otuoma has hinted at running for the Busia governorship independently should the ODM party deny him a certificate. Addressing supporters in Busia town on Wednesday, the MP said that he will not go for a re-run of Busia ODM primaries in Teso North and Teso South constituencies for the governorship seat set for April 25, as directed by the party's national elections board. “This whole situation is becoming stale. I have already made the decision. I will run for the governorship seat with or without ODM certificate. They are trying to introduce a tribal angle which has a long time effect to our people,” said Dr Otuoma. “I don't want to do anything that will jeopardise Raila Odinga’s chances for the presidency. I do not want to divide the ODM party,” he added. The outgoing Funyula MP queried the way the party conducted the primaries despite raising questions on the composition of the county elections board who he said were favouring his opponent, Governor Sospeter Odeke Ojaamong. “I don't want anything that will divide residents of Busia who have stayed in peace. It is Ojaamong who has committed a crime. Not Teso people. I want you to give me the assurance that Busia governor will be determined by residents of Busia,” he said amid cheers from the crowd. In mock swearing session, Dr Otuoma declared that he will protect the interest of the people of Busia and asked God to help him. “I ask for your blessings during the submissions of papers to IEBC. The interest of people of Busia must be protected and respected at whatever cost. With or without certificate, Otuoma shall be the governor of Busia,” said Mr Otuoma. On Sunday, Dr Otuoma had given the party a 48-hour ultimatum to hand him the ticket for the Busia seat and disqualify the Governor whose win was nullified on Friday last week. Mr Ojaamong garnered 92,358 votes against Dr Otuoma’s 63,752 but the win was immediately nullified due to massive irregularities. The MP has insisted he won last week’s nomination. "We won the elections in broad daylight. Kurudia kura hakuna (There will be no repeat elections)." ODM has since announced that a re-run will only take place in Teso North and South constituencies where governor Ojaamong enjoys strong support. In the just-concluded primaries, the two constituencies gave Mr Ojaamong 44,369 and 33,349 respectively while Mr Otuoma garnered 1,359 and 3,303 votes respectively.  