Hard economic times are driving young men to throw caution to the wind as they try to eke out a living from fishing in Lake Naivasha. Four fishermen have drowned in the lake within a week and the authorities are blaming their deaths on disregard for safety regulations. Some of those who have drowned are said to have failed to wear safety jackets and gone fishing at night. Others are unlicensed fishermen or poachers who throw caution to the wind in a bid to avoid being spotted by law-enforcers. The Nakuru county government has licensed 100 fishermen in the lake. But the allure of a quick buck has seen some residents engage in what has now become hazardous expeditions that are snuffing out lives. STRONG WINDS In all the tragic occasions, boats capsized after the fishermen encountered strong winds in the deep end of the lake. The lake, according to experts, has an average depth of 6 metres (20 ft), with the deepest area being at Crescent Island, at a maximum depth of 30 metres (100 ft). Nakuru County acting fisheries officer Mathew Ngila attributed the incidents to the uncharacteristic strong winds being experienced in the evening. “Much as we are trying our best to enforce fishing regulations, the fishermen should also take responsibility for personal safety,” he told the Sunday Nation. He said his department may be forced to work with the police to conduct a 24-hour surveillance to forestall the dangerous fishing expeditions. “We are going to act tough and involve the police in the round-the-clock shadowing. We have been talking to them (fishermen) but it seems some are not ready to change,” said Mr Ngila. CHILLING ACCOUNT The latest tragedy occurred two weeks ago when two fishermen drowned at night after their boat capsized barely a week after a similar incident that claimed two lives. A survivor, Mr Patrick Sangare, gave a chilling account about how he cheated death by clinging onto the capsized vessel for four hours. He and his colleagues had cast nets in an area that is rich with fish. “We took off at Karagita area at around 4 pm and arrived near our destination almost one hour later,” he said. As they canoed around the lake, they encountered strong waves and the wooden boat started leaking. “We thought of emptying it but the waves grew stronger and my colleagues suggested that we jump out. Those are the last words I heard from them,” said the survivor. INSURANCE COVER The boat capsized but he clung onto the plastic petrol tank that was afloat. “I could not call for help as my phone was off,” said Mr Sangare. Interestingly, none of the boats operating in the lake has a valid insurance cover or safety equipment. The competence of coxswains is also in doubt with a majority of them undergoing “on the job training” by their “senior” colleagues, then are allowed to navigate the engine-propelled boats. Mr Jeremiah Oloo, a seasoned lake operator, appealed to the county government to make available rescue gear saying the task of retrieving bodies was being undertaken by ill-equipped divers. “They are endangering their lives too, since the divers don’t have the proper gear to undertake such tasks. It is a miracle that no incident has occurred.” RULES He says local divers should be trained on safety measures and provided with the right equipment. “They should then be stationed near the lake on a 24-hour basis for quick response in case of an accident,” said Mr Oloo. In 2016, a boat with six fishermen capsized killing two cousins. Mr Ngila appealed to the licensed fishermen to stick to the laid-down rules instead of endangering their lives. “We will do what we can on our part, but it is upon the fishermen to adhere to safety rules at all times and wear safety gear while carrying out their fishing activities,” said Mr Ngila. This is the third year in a row that commercial fishing has been allowed in the lake since the lifting of the three-month periodic ban that took effect every June. The ban was first imposed in 2001, following the dwindling of fish stocks, especially the popular Tilapia.   Over 100 fishermen have been licensed to operate in the fresh water Lake.