Raphael Tuju - Secretary General After losing the Rarieda parliamentary seat in 2007, the former minister worked as President Mwai Kibaki’s adviser on ethnic relations and media. In the run up to the 2013 elections, he returned to mainstream politics through his Party of Action but went quiet until he was plucked by President Uhuru Kenyatta to head Jubilee. A former journalist, Mr Tuju’s polished language convinced all and sundry that the Jubilee nominations would be without a hiccup. He said eight helicopters would be on standby to deal with the unexpected. Winnie Guchu - Executive DirectorShe resigned her membership of the Judicial Service Commission to join the party as the head of the secretariat because, according to Mr Tuju, she had “hands-on experience” having previously headed The National Alliance as the executive director. Considering the Friday events, her “hands-on experience” could now be called into question. Before her tenure at TNA, Ms Guchu was a commissioner with the Interim Independent Electoral Commission, which paved way for the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission. Andrew Musangi - chair, polls board Mr Musangi was never the first candidate to chair the National Elections Board. However, thanks to the integrity questions raised about the initial appointee Pwoka Wanyonyi, he was thrust into the scene. Now the lawyer finds himself in the hot seat as he faces scrutiny over the shambolic primaries even as focus turns on the new nomination dates from tomorrow. David Murathe – Vice chairman A long-time ally of President Kenyatta, Mr Murathe spearheaded efforts to merge TNA and Deputy President William Ruto’s URP. The merger is what gave birth to Jubilee Party. Whatever he says concerning the party is often interpreted as the thinking of the President. Alfred Getonga A long-time personal aide of President Mwai Kibaki, Mr Getonga is in charge of communication in Mr Kenyatta’s campaign team. Wambui Gichuru She is the director of finance and administration at Jubilee headquarters. Before the merger, she was the TNA treasurer. Godfrey Ninito Lemiso He is in charge of Logistics at Jubilee, a key office in planning and executing party affairs, including the nominations. Previously, he worked with IEBC as the manager for electoral planning and logistics. In 2014, Mr Lemiso was charged alongside Ms Kethi Kilonzo with four counts of stealing an acknowledgment slip, handling stolen goods, uttering a false document and neglect of official duty.  