Tottenham Hotspur midfielder Victor Wanyama is talking up his team’s chances of winning this season’s English Premier League title. Wanyama’s club are actively pursuing their first league title in 46 years. They host city rivals Arsenal on Sunday in the north London derby. Currently ranked second on the EPL standings with 74 points, four adrift of league leaders Chelsea with five matches left on the roster, Wanyama and his teammates are best placed — among the 19 other clubs — to challenge Chelsea heading into the home straight. And in an interview with CNN on Thursday, the Harambee Stars captain said he is confident Tottenham are “on the right track” as far as their target of catching Chelsea is concerned. “We have to go on game-by-game and we’ll see at the end of the season. That’s what we are doing and I think we are on the right track.” If the target is realised, the defensive midfielder will become the first East African footballer to win a major title in England. The 25-year-old, however, boasts two Scottish Premier League titles and several other personal accolades. Spurs will host a struggling Arsenal at the White Hart Lane in the exciting north-London derby, a contest Wanyama has termed as a “tough game”. “Everyone is expecting a tough game. I think it will be a great game for both teams. Also, it will be a nice game to play... I see it as one of the biggest games in the season,” said Wanyama. Wanyama has also enjoyed a successful stint off the pitch this week. He was awarded the Youth Engagement Award at the Best of Africa awards ceremony. The award is in recognition of his philanthropic endeavors. While the race for the Premier League title has become a contest solely between leaders Chelsea and Tottenham Hotspur, the battle to beat the drop is a more complicated affair. With a maximum of five rounds left, the identities of the bottom three who will be relegated into the second-tier Championship come the end of the season have still to be confirmed. Sunderland have excelled at staying up in recent seasons, but even their reputation as the Harry Houdini of the Premier League may not be enough to save them this time. Wednesday’s 1-0 defeat by northeast rivals and fellow strugglers Middlesbrough left bottom of the table Sunderland 12 points adrift of safety with a maximum of 15 still available to them this season. Defeat completed a wretched day for Sunderland manager David Moyes, who has been charged by England’s Football Association for telling a female reporter she might “get a slap”.But the defiant Scot, whose side are at home to Bournemouth on Saturday, insisted he had no ntention of walking out on the Black Cats. “No, I’m here, I’m the manager, you take it on the chin. I am used to winning, I’m not used to losing and I don’t want to get used to it either.” Marten de Roon’s ninth-minute strike gave Steve Agnew his first win since replacing Aitor Karanka as Middlesbrough boss and the club’s first in the league since December 17, although they remain six points shy of safety. “We hadn’t won a game since December, so we needed to win the game,” said Agnew, whose side now face a daunting trip to Manchester City on Sunday.Swansea too had the morale boost of a win, a 2-0 victory over Stoke, last time out but they remain in the bottom three, two points from safety, ahead of their Sunday match at Manchester United. “I am very confident that we will stay up,” said bullish Swansea coach Paul Clement. “Maybe I would not have been if we had not got that good result and good performance against Stoke.” Hull, just above the relegation zone, have earned 19 points out of 21 at home since manager Marco Silva was hired but they now face a potentially awkward trip to Southampton. Reigning champions Leicester City have stumbled lately under Craig Shakespeare but a win at West Bromwich Albion on Saturday would all but guarantee their Premier League future following a 1-0 loss to Arsenal in midweek. Chelsea, four points clear of Spurs, who’ve also got five league games remaining, are away to Everton on Sunday when Tottenham face Arsenal. City and United remained a point apart in fourth and fifth respectively after Thursday’s goalless draw at the Etihad — a match where United’s Marouane Fellaini was sent off six minutes from time for a reckless headbutt on Sergio Aguero. “I can guess it’s a bit of a red card and a bit of a very smart, very experienced Argentinian player (Aguero)”, said United manager Jose Mourinho. Meanwhile City manager Pep Guardiola — due to finish a season trophyless for the first time in his managerial career — told the BBC: “Every game until the last game now will be a final.”   Will AFC Leopards finally hand leaders Posta Rangers their first defeat of the season?