President Uhuru Kenyatta will tour Kisumu County on Tuesday in what is his sixth visit to Opposition leader Raila Odinga’s backyard since he took office in 2013. Mr Kenyatta’s visit also comes at a time when the county is abuzz with political activities as aspirants allied to the region’s dominant party, ODM, intensify campaigns to beat the April 24 nominations date. According to State House spokesperson Manoah Esipisu, the President will preside over the drama festival gala, and will also hold meetings with local leaders. DEVELOPMENT TOUR Speaking at the Kisumu State Lodge, Mr Esipisu said President Kenyatta would visit Vihiga, the backyard of Nasa co-principal Musalia Mudavadi in what he described as a development tour. “The President is reaching out to every corner of the country, not just Vihiga. It is important for him that he visits all counties and see how government investments are impacting ordinary people,” said Mr Esipisu. He added: “The bottom line is that the President understands the daily grind that our people go through even as he works to grow the economy. He feels them, as we’d say. He is working hard to improve lives.” CAMPAIGNINGWhile State House has termed the visits as development tours, a section of leaders in the region say they are political as the decision by the Head of State to address rallies and hold a series of meetings “was a campaign strategy”. Last month, top government officials sent by the President to Nyanza reassured residents that Jubilee had not abandoned the region. They said the government was putting in place measures to address hyacinth, fishing, ICT and arts challenges in the region. The high-powered delegation was led by newly appointed Jubilee Party secretary-general Raphael Tuju who is also a pointman of the political outfit in Nyanza. FREE MATERNITY Mr Esipisu defended Jubilee’s development record in Nyanza saying the region had received as much attention as other parts of the country. In terms of devolved funds, Mr Esipisu said Kisumu County had received Sh17.9 billion whereas the CDF allocation in the corresponding period was Sh2.6 billion. “This implies that a large chunk of cash has been available to help grow the county and hopefully, the governor and the MPs from here invested the money well in projects that lift the lives of the residents,” said Mr Esipisu. Kisumu had received 21,792 tablets, distributed to 402 schools, while the government had also paid for free maternity that had seen 77,452 deliveries since June 2013, he added. DEVOLUTION Mr Esipisu also cited the Women Enterprise Fund, indicating there had been a total of 36,256 beneficiaries from the region, who got Sh216.4 million. He said the Youth Enterprise Development Fund had helped 11,391 people who got Sh119.4 million. Homa Bay County, he said, received Sh17.7 billion in devolution funds since President Kenyatta came to power, adding that the county also received Sh3.1 billion in CDF monies. “In Siaya County, the amount of money transferred to the devolved administration since 2013 is Sh15.3 billion whereas the CDF allocation is Sh2.3 billion,” said Mr Esipisu. BUNYOREIn western region, Jubilee is now targeting the two Bunyore constituencies of Emuhaya and Luanda in Vihiga County. “The President last week received a surprise goodwill delegation from Bunyore, including defectors from Nasa affiliates ODM and ANC,” a statement from State House said. He added: “The President is trumpeting development investments to show he understands the Banyore, the challenges they face, and that he is doing everything possible to improve their livelihoods.”  