Mathare United will have to go back to the drawing board and find a way of converting chances after settling for a barren draw with Chemelil Sugar in their SportPesa Premier League at Thika Sub-County Stadium on Wednesday. Mathare, playing their second game without suspended head coach Francis Kimanzi, dominated the opening half but were undone by their wasteful forwards.Rookie forward David Owino fluffed his lines after he was put through one-on-one against Chemelil Sugar custodian Jairus Adira eight minutes into the match before Derrick Onyango missed yet another clear cut chance before the break. The visitors, buoyed by their 1-0 win over Bandari last Friday, sat back and opted to threaten on the counter.The combination of Laban Gambareko and John Mwita struggled to break a watertight Mathare backline led by the evergreen George Owino. Two brilliant saves by Adira on the 34th and 35th minutes denied the hosts the lead. First, Daniel Mwaura's shot from the right wing was parried out by Adira for a fruitless corner before Onyango had shot inside the box that didn t trouble the custodian.With two minutes to the break, David Owino thought he had broken the deadlock after finishing off an attempt from Onyango but his goal ruled out for an offside by referee David Mulongo. David Mwangi then headed off target from Cliff Nyakeya's free-kick as Abdallah Juma's charges survived a first half onslaught from the Slum Boys. Both teams had a balanced game in the final 45 minutes creating chances from one end to the other.Levis Opiyo had to overstretch to punch out Willis Ouma's corner on the 58th minute before Edwin Omondi had a shot from outside the area that missed the target. FAILED TO SCORELennox Ogutu failed to capitalise on a defensive lapse in the Chemelil box in the 62nd minute, blasting wide when it was easier to score.Mwaura then watched haplessly as his shot hit the underside of the post just 22 minutes from time as the push for a goal persisted in vain. "We dropped two points today. We created numerous scoring chances that we couldn't convert then but coming from the humiliating loss in Nakuru, we are confident as we head into the next match," said Mathare assistant coach Salim Ali. For Abdallah, the draw was a positive result for his side."We came here to either get all the points or one. We knew Mathare wouldn't want to lose another match hence we shut all their strong points," the former KCB and Bidco United coach said. email print email print The win took K'Ogalo into second place.