Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka rallied his Ukambani people behind the Nasa lineup that places him as Mr Raila Odinga s deputy, which he said was good.Mr Musyoka spoke at a burial in Kangundo, Machakos County, and said the Kamba interests had been well taken care of in the deal, as he showered Mr Odinga with praise as the best Nasa candidate. I want to tell all voters from this region to stand firm in support of my brother Odinga, as he is the only person with the requisite political experience to lead this country, Mr Musyoka said.LEADERS UNHAPPY But even as he spoke, four of his foot soldiers led by National Assembly minority leader Francis Nyenze and Kitui Senator David Musila have termed the lineup unveiled on Thursday a raw deal for the Kamba people. Speaking at Parliament Buildings, Mr Nyenze said it will be hard to sell the Raila presidency in Ukambani.With him was Kitui East MP Marcus Muluvi and Mwingi West MP Benard Kitunge Mr Musyoka had assured us that he will not take anything less than the presidency and that is the message we passed to our people in Ukambani."How then do we go back and tell them that he will be deputy President? he asked.RESPECT PAST ACCORD Mr Nyenze said the coalition should have respected the MoU that was signed between Mr Odinga and Mr Kalonzo in 2013.He said the absence of leaders from the Kamba at Thursday s Uhuru Park event was a show of protest. We have to be told what changed and I will not shy away from highlighting these issues as the Kamba got a raw deal, Mr Nyenze insisted.He added that new people were brought into the coalition. Something is wrong with Wiper and we have to put our house in order. In the deal, Amani National Congress leader Musalia Mudavadi is proposed to take up the non-existent position of Premier Cabinet Secretary, Moses Wetang ula is to be in charge of public service while Bomet governor Isaac Ruto will oversee the State department of Devolution.NYENZE REPRIMANDED Mr Nyenze was immediately rebuked by his Wiper colleagues Makueni Governor Kivutha Kibwana, Senator Mutula Kilonzo Jnr, Woman representative Rose Museo, Makueni MP Daniel Maanzo and his Kibwezi East counterpart Jessica Mbalu, who welcomed the deal.Mr Kilonzo Jnr said: Mr Nyenze lacks the capacity to talk on behalf of the Kamba. He cannot event talk on behalf of Wiper party. In Lavington, Mr Mudavadi s supporters backed the deal, which they said was the best for the coalition. They said the Amani leader had been selfless in relinquishing his presidential bid. We did it for Kenya. We know we will have to explain to our supporters to think along those lines, Mr Sakwa Bunyasi, the Nambale MP, said.Vihiga MP Yusuf Chanzu, also allied to Mr Mudavadi, said the deal was good, but warned any of the five principals breaching it. We are hoping there will be some kind of discipline, Mr Chanzu said. But the positions we have are good. Even Premier Cabinet Secretary is both Executive and political. Reported by Patrick Lang at, Ouma Wanzala and Gastone Valusi email print email print Mr Odinga made a point of affirming he will serve just one term if elected.