Gor Mahia will be out to reclaim the top spot in the SportPesa Premier League table Saturday afternoon when they face Kakamega Homeboyz at Afraha Stadium in Nakuru. Gor suffered a shock 2-1 defeat to Western Stima last Sunday to add an intriguing twist to the early season that had seen them assume league leadership from the first day of the season. Currently in third place just one point off leaders AFC Leopards and Bandari, K’Ogalo will be out to resume the league leadership with a win over the unbeaten Homeboyz. Gor have never lost to Homeboyz in the history of the league, but the Kakamega-based side will be out to turn the tables on the 15-time Kenyan champions. Gor coach Marcelo Ferreira has a tough decision to make up front. The Brazilian will have to decide on whether to hand the misfiring Timothy Otieno another start as Jacques Tuyisenge’s helper upfront or reinstate Meddie Kagere or George Odhiambo into the starting line-up. Whatever his decision today, the Brazilian has challenged his players to pick up themselves and go for victory. “We were disappointed to lose, but we have had a fairly good run of performances before that. That was only an interruption. We should pick up from here," Ferreira said. New signing Jean Baptiste Mugiraneza, who missed the last two games against Stima and Zoo Kericho, has shaken off an ankle injury and is available for selection. Homeboyz are expected to field former AFC Leopards striker Lamine Diallo for the first time this season, and he is expected to partner Wycliffe Ochomo in attack. “We were a bit complacent in our last match against Posta Rangers, but everyone is prepared for this match,” Homeboyz captain Ali Bhai said. INGWE BATTLE CHEMELIL Table toppers AFC Leopards will be away to Chemelil Sugar in Kisumu hoping to maintain their early season form on Sunday. Ingwe coach Stewart Hall, who joined the club towards the end of last season, has engineered a massive turnaround in the club’s fortunes. Leopards have won two and drawn one of their opening three matches of the 2017 season and face a Chemelil side still smarting from their 1-0 loss to Tusker in their last outing. Former Leopards defender Yusuf Juma, who joined Chemelil early this year, will face his former employers for the first time in this match. Saturday Nakumatt v Sony Sugar (Afraha, 2pm) Gor Mahia v Kakamega Homeboyz (Afraha, 4.15pm) Muhoroni Youth v Mathare United (Muhoroni, 3pm) Sunday Sofapaka v Tusker (Thika United, 2pm) Thika United v Zoo Kericho (Thika, 4.15pm) Nzoia United v Kariobangi Sharks (Sudi, 3pm) Posta Rangers v Western Stima (Afraha, 2pm) Ulinzi Stars v Bandari (Afraha, 4.15pm) Chemelil v AFC Leopards (Kisumu, 3pm)  