Stiff competition is expected as the Brookside National Secondary Schools Term One Games enter the semi-finals stage on Friday. In 15s rugby, East African title holders Kakamega High lock horns with Upper Hill as 2015 winners Laiser Hill tackle 2004 champions St Mary's Yala in the other last four encounter at Nairobi School. Kakamega, who have won the national title six times, renew their rivalry with Upper Hill in what is expected to be a cracking battle. Kakamega finished second in Pool B after losing their final game 10-8 to Laiser Hill on Thursday. Kakamega beat Upper Hill to win bronze in last year's nationals in Bungoma but Kakamega captain Frankilne Shiveka believes both sides are evenly matched ahead of the tie."We wanted to top our pool but the match against Laiser was very tight. Upper Hill are equally good and their wingers are very fast and physically strong meaning we have got to bring our A game, Shiveka said.Upper Hill on the other hand completed their preliminary matches with a perfect record after they beat St Mary's Yala 28-0 in their final Pool A match. The Nairobi Region champions are looking to avenge last year's loss. "We have gotten better with each game and Kakamega should prepare themselves for a battle," Upper Hill coach Victor Walgwe said.In boys' hockey, it will be a Nairobi affair as newcomers Dr Ribiero lock horns with Upper Hill in the first semifinal as former champions St Anthony's Kitale play 1996 winners Kisumu Day. Ribiero, who are the Nairobi Region champions, have surpassed expectations so far and will be hoping to extend their fairytale at the games. Despite losing 3-1 to Musingu in their final preliminary match yesterday, the City-based school topped Pool A with six points.They will be favourites having already beaten Upper Hill 3-2 at the Nairobi Region finals last month."The lads have done well so far. We are one win away from the final and the morale is high in our camp," Ribiero coach Eric Nyamweya said.Upper Hill finished second in Pool B after a 1-0 win over Mangu High School on Thursday.In basketball, champions Upper Hill lock horns with Nyeri Baptist while Laiser Hill will be up against Kisumu Boys for a place in Saturday s final.Upper Hill topped Pool A with a 100 percent record after they hit Kangaru Boys 79-34 in their last match.Two-time champions Nyeri Baptist sealed their place in the last four courtesy of a 57-50 win over Chavakali Boys in their last preliminary match Thursday.However, they face an uphill task in trying to stop Upper Hill from reaching another final.Laiser Hill, who are in to the last four after a four-year absence, will fancy their chances against Kisumu Boys, who finished second behind Upper Hill in Pool A. email print email print Familiar foes Sinyolo Girls and St Cecilia Misikhu lock horns in the girls hockey semi-finals