Q. I am new in this company and aware that off days are not given to new employees. I am on a temporary contract and there is so much to be done at the office, so it feels unreasonable to ask for an off day. Sometimes something very urgent and private comes up, requiring me to travel to attend to it but I am hesitant to approach my boss. How do I handle this?  All employees accrue leave days after working for a minimum of two months as per the labour laws. As long as you have a contract with the organisation, you are entitled to a minimum of 21 working days per annum. The productivity of employees at the workplace is greatly influenced by their emotional wellbeing, therefore insisting to keep an employee at the workplace so as to abide by the law is unwise. The employee could be there physically, but miles away mentally. You must learn to prioritise issues, if you have an emergency that you must attend to, then you had better. Ignoring the emergency because of work responsibilities will just stress you and make you unproductive. That said, you must also realise that you have a responsibility to be diligent and dependable, therefore you must learn how to differentiate situations that are urgent but can wait for the weekend to be attended to, and the ones that will affect your emotional wellbeing if they are not attended to promptly. You can then approach your boss with a request to be away from work. The most responsible way to go about this is where possible, delegate your duties to a colleague with clear instructions on delivery. You should also update your supervisor about any outstanding task that you intend to complete when you resume. Get help from other people by delegating personal errands and responsibilities to free your time and allow you to concentrate on your job. Earlier on in my career, I observed an interesting habit, some employees would not report to work since their domestic help had decided to leave. This would go on for more than a week. There are ways to ensure that your personal inconveniences do not affect your work, otherwise you might be construed to be a lethargic person who likes staying away from the office yet expects a salary at the end of the month.  