Champions Kabras Sugar and Kenya Harlequin on Saturday reached the Kenya Cup semi-finals by the skin of their teeth when they secured slim victories against their stubborn opponents.Kabras Sugar put up good defence and scrummages to beat hosts Resolution Impala 21-18 at Impala Sports Club while Quins beat the battling Mwamba 32-31 at the RFUEA grounds to sneak through into the last four.Kabras Sugar, who are chasing their second consecutive title, will now meet Homeboyz at Jamhuri Park show ground while Quins are up against Kenya Commercial Bank in the semi-finals next Saturday.It was a bad day for Mwamba after their fly-half George Mutuku, who had been brilliant throughout the match, missed a crucial conversion and a penalty in the last five minutes to hand Quins victory.Quins touched down five tries, a penalty and two conversions to see off Mwamba, who managed three tries, three penalties, a drop goal and two conversions. Wilson K Opondo, Patrice Agunda, Brian Okwomi, Peter Misango and Joseph Kang ethe catapulted Quins to the semi-finals, their first in three seasons with a try apiece. Fullback Kevin Keegan finished off for Quins with two conversions and a penalty.Two tries, three penalties and a conversions were enough to send Kabras to the semis at the expense of Impala, who scored two tries through George Okowa. Okowa also curled over two penalties while Nato Simiyu converted one try. However, all was in vain for the Sarries, who had made the final last year. The rugby gods were with us we were lucky especially after Mwamba missed the last conversion and a penalty, said Quins coach Joel Ng ang a. "We gave them two easy tries. TOUGHEN UPHowever, Ng ang a said his charges now have to toughen up ahead of the semi-finals after having had to dig deep to beat Mwamba. Our back three somehow failed us but we shall polish that ahead of the clash against KCB, said Ng ang a, who is looking forward for an all-round display from KCB. They have strong forwards and backs but we shall match that."Kabras Sugar were supreme in their mauling as they curtailed any break from Impala to also deny them possession. We knew Impala were strong in the scrums and we had to ruin that, said Kabras Sugar deputy coach Anthony Ogot. What did the trick for us were our suave set-pieces. Ogot said he expects a highly physical and organised dual against Homeboyz. We have a week to play and pray for a good result, said Ogot, who will be seeking revenge against Homeboyz, who beat them in the regular season. We started well but we didn t protect our mauls and didn t break off quick enough, said Resolution Impala director of coaching Fred Ollows. I am glad we fought to the end. email print email print Give me the file as soon as you&#039;re done, DPP tells top crime buster Muhoro Ndegwa. Trump accuses it of supporting population control programs that include coercive abortion.