Anxiety and tension is building up ahead of the Kenya Cup final clash on Saturday at the KCB Sports Club, Ruaraka.Defending champions Kabras Sugar face four times former champions Kenya Commercial Bank (KCB) in what is a repeat of the 2014/2015 final where the bankers prevailed 27-3.While Kabras Sugar have made some slight changes to the squad that beat Homeboyz 22-17 in the semi-final to reach their third successive Cup final, KCB have kept mum on their squad selection.Arrangements for the final match are complete with gate charges at Sh400. Home side KCB say gates will open at 2pm for the 4pm kick-off. We have arranged for everything. There will be secure parking, food and drinks in plenty for the early fans. We will also have an all night after-party, hoping we will be the ones celebrating, said John Ojara, KCB secretary. This season, Kabras and KCB drew 15-15 in Kakamega before the bankers claimed a slim 22-17 victory in Ruaraka during the regular season pointing to a potentially tight affair on Saturday.REINFORCEMENTKabras Sugar head coach Anthony Ogot has brought back Uganda international Philip Wokorach to the starting line-up where he will replace Fijian John Kubu at fly-half. Wokorach missed the semi-final after he featured for Uganda during the World Rugby Sevens Series qualifying tournament in Hong Kong. Kubu whose kicking proved a gem and crucial for their victory against Homeboyz, moves to full-back with Felix Ayange switching to the wing. We are yet to decide who among wingers Kevin Kabole, Marlin Habil and Peter Nakarawa will start at the bench, said Ogot.KCB head coach Curtis Olago was reluctant to disclose team formation especially with influential Kenya Sevens team skipper Andrew Amonde back from the World Sevens Series. We are also going for total rugby .the team that will win is the one whose players will wake up on the right side of the bed, commits less mistakes and use their ball possession well, said Ogot. One small mistake will prove costly. Ogot said their training since winning the semi-final will not count but what they have done since December. We have improved a lot what with most of our players making a return from injuries and other duties. Olago said that many teams wanted to push the season to the last match but KCB and Kabras emerged the best. It will be a tough final considering that Kabras Sugar knows how to play knockout matches, this being their third consecutive final, said Olago. This is a pressure final and the team that soak the pressure will carry the day. email print email print