Newly appointed university councils have the next 100 days to interrogate audit reports on their institutions and immediately start working on corrective measures in line with existing road maps. As they settle down, the teams will be expected to ensure quality assurance systems are in place at their institutions to safeguard academic standards. They have also been tasked with ensuring integrated electronic information management systems in the management of student records, with a stern warning by the Ministry of Education that no university will hold a graduation ceremony this year if it will not have set up the system. RESTORE DIGNITY Education Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i has also tasked the councils to particularly focus on governance and management of universities, quality of academic programmes offered, efficiency in management of student affairs and checks and balances in the financial management of the institutions. According to a recent report, standards (at both academic and administrative levels) at universities have been greatly compromised to the detriment of learners. Hence, Dr Matiang'i made it clear that he will ensure all recommendations advanced are complied with. “There is an urgent need to redeem the reputation of our university education in Kenya,” Dr Matiang’i said in Naivasha on Monday during an induction workshop for public university council members where he was accompanied by Principal Secretary for University Education Collette Suda and the Chairman of the Commission for University Education Chacha Nyaigoti Chacha. READ: Commission to get varsity education back on track READ: Audit shows Sh1bn loss at Moi varsity FRESH MANAGERSThe government, he added, is working with other East African countries to seal loopholes used to obtain fake degrees. “The ministry wants to end shortcuts used to acquire fake academic papers from other East African countries,” the minister told the newly appointed members and chairpersons of councils of universities. The two-day workshop at Lake Naivasha Simba Lodge was organised by the ministry and the Commission for Higher Education. Dr Matiang’i dissolved all university councils in January. New university councils for 22 public institutions were named last month. CASES OF INDISCIPLINE The CS also raised alarm over increasing cases of drug abuse in institutions of higher learning. He said some have become drug markets and conduits, compromising the security of the learners. According to the CS, a proper learning environment is a critical component in ensuring quality education. He cited Maseno University where student fights in halls of residence are alleged, terming it unacceptable. “I am on the verge of demanding investigations over the sorry state of affairs at Maseno University. The ministry has been receiving complaints about the congested halls of residence and fights among students,” Dr Matiang’i said. CONSULT STUDENTS He challenged university councils and senates to come up with agreeable guidelines that will ensure discipline is maintained in learning institutions. The CS, however, said such decisions should be made in consultation with student leaders to minimise cases of mistrust. In April last year, former Nacada chairman John Mututho called for investigation of student leaders at the University of Nairobi over alleged drug abuse and sale. He claimed sale of drugs was rife at the university following student unrest cases.  