Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) boss has been described as a destructive and backward leader who should not be given chance to lead the nation. President Uhuru Kenyatta’s confidante, the Devolution Cabinet Secretary Mwangi Kiunjuri, has stated that Mr Raila Odinga is incapable of leading the country and thus Kenyans should not vote for him as president in August polls. Addressing starving residents on Saturday at Kwa Mnengwa, Mwatate sub-county in Taita-Taveta County as he distributed relief food, the CS said Mr Odinga was fond of criticizing the Jubilee administration but he has no development track record while serving in government in the past. “This guy (Mr Odinga) is destructive and backward…he has become irrelevant until he cannot even explain his own rhetoric,” charged the CS. The Cabinet Secretary accused Mr Odinga of constantly using historical injustices as a campaign tool to gain political mileage in the coast. LOST GROUND Mr Kiunjuri told the residents that historical injustices occurred everywhere and that Coast was not special for its case to be used as a campaign tool. He said that the opposition had lost ground in many parts of the country, which was a clear indication that Mr Odinga had lost relevance in Kenya’s politics. Mr Kiunjuri said most Coast politicians had defected to Jubilee Party, which was a clear manifestation that the opposition chief was a “difficult man to work with.” He cited defections of governors Salim Mvurya (Kwale) and Hussein Dado (Tana River) and senators Dan Mwazo (Taita-Taveta) and County Woman Representative Joyce as a sign that Jubilee Party has gained ground due to achievements of Jubilee administration. “Even his colleagues in the National Supper Alliance (Nasa) have asserted that Mr Odinga cannot beat President Uhuru Kenyatta in August polls, how do you expect him to win if his closest colleagues have disqualified his chances of winning elections?” he posed. NO AGENDA The Opposition, he said, has no agenda for Kenyans adding that Mr Odinga was too old to be president. “He is over 70 years and hence he should retire from politics,” he added. He at the same time defended his colleagues involved in campaigning for President Kenyatta’s re-election explaining that they had a responsibility of reporting to Kenyans what the government had done for them. His sentiments were echoed by Mining Cabinet Secretary Dan Kazungu who said that Jubilee Administration had improved infrastructure, issued title deeds to squatters, equipped hospitals with dialysis machines and connected many households to the national grid. Mr Kazungu said the government was committed to establishing a mining centre in the county to tap into the opportunities available in the county.  