For mobile subscribers, the fresh price war among Kenya’s top three telcos should go on forever. Why? The lower charges for voice calls, text and data could not have come at a better time for the shilling-pressed customer. Airtel and Telkom Kenya have cut their tariffs in a fresh attempt to eat into the market dominance of Safaricom. The two telcos have also unveiled special promotions and offers for subscribers. READ: Airtel cuts call rates to rival networks in market fight READ: Facebook takes on telcos with low-cost Internet in Nairobi ALSO READ: Airtel stops pan-African scratch card top-ups Airtel’s 6.8 million customers can now call each other free of charge for up to 100 minutes daily, or call rival networks for Sh2 per minute. This package is available for just Sh10 daily or Sh50 weekly. For Telkom Kenya, a Sh19 daily fee gives customers free unlimited on-net calls, calls to other networks at Sh1.80 per minute, free text messages across all networks, and 20 megabytes of data. Safaricom, which controls about seven out of every 10 mobile subscribers in Kenya, has also cut the prices of voice calls, SMS and data by a third through a product dubbed ‘Flex.’ For Sh99 per day, Safaricom subscribers get 115 flex units, equivalent to 345MB or 38.3 minutes call, or 345 text messages. At this rate, voice calls on this plan are charged Sh2.60 per minute. Telcos have since January to date made and received approval for a total of 14 requests for tariffs and promotions, according to the Communications Authority of Kenya (CA). The telecoms industry regulator said the various special offers by Safaricom, Airtel and Telkom Kenya reflect a competitive market with each player striving to outdo its rivals in the race for more customer numbers. Predatory pricing “The different offerings in the market are indicative of telco’s expanded drive to increase the uptake, acquisition and retention of customers,” said Mr Francis Wangusi, director-general at CA, in an interview with Smart Company. He allayed fears that this new wave of low tariffs may lead to predatory pricing akin to the 2010 price wars which saw Safaricom post two consecutive drops in profitability following an onslaught from Airtel. “It is important to note that promotions and special offers are time-bound to ensure that they do not distort the market,” Mr Wangusi said adding that such offers are limited to 90 days. However, there are cases where telcos have turned promotions into permanent tariffs. Airtel in August 2010 sparked a vicious price war with Safaricom, which saw off-net tariffs nose-dive to an average of Sh4 a minute from a high of Sh12 per minute; while on-net calls dropped to Sh3 per minute from peaks of Sh7 a minute. This was after the regulator unveiled a glide path which saw connection fee telcos charge each other — mobile termination rates (MTR)— drop by half to Sh2.21 per minute from 4.42 in 2009. The current inter-connecting rate is Sh0.99 per minute. Safaricom currently charges Sh4 a minute to call within and outside its network between 8am and 10pm and Sh2 a minute for rest of the hours. Airtel and Telkom Kenya tariffs are at Sh3 to rival networks and Sh2 per minute on-net calls. Called for regulation Telkom Kenya chief executive Aldo Mareuse called for strict regulation in setting tariffs to curb any cases of undercutting. “We’re offering calls at Sh1.80 per minute. You can’t really go much lower than this. That just goes to tell you that unless there is clear regulation, we’re not going to be able to make much progress,” Mr Mareuse said. Nine out of every 10 calls in Safaricom’s voice traffic were on-net calls, in contrast to Airtel where only half or 53 per cent of total minutes used are within the network, according to statistics for the half year to December 2016. Telkom’s share of on-net calls amounts to 77 per cent of total minutes used in the period under review. This explains why Airtel and Telkom are wooing their customers to call each other on their network for low fees where they keep all the earnings as they don’t have to pay MTR to rivals.  