Success in academic life has great value. It provides opportunities that were limited in the past, when birth and inheritance were the only determinants of socio-economic advancement. Academic qualifications are viewed as reliable proxy for knowledge, competencies and skills of the bearers. Governments strive to produce competent graduates capable of spearheading national growth. But this effort is undermined by the proliferation of fraudulently acquired academic and professional papers. Once the tree of academic fraud matures, examinations fail to select the best candidates while certification fails to record the true accomplishments of the graduates. SOCIETAL REQUIREMENTS Ultimately, the education system fails to instruct the students how to meet societal requirements. Such lack of integrity is inconsistent with the purpose of education. Thus, graduates never come to full realisation of what it is to be a human being - living morally, creatively and productively in a democratic society. Of signal importance, nothing stunts the growth of a society as corrupting the academics. We miss the opportunity to nurture the creative energy of our people through the priceless power of truth and reason that education embodies. SPIRITUAL RHYTHM For, we violate the spiritual rhythm of our nation and compromise our dignity by adulterating natural reasoning. The dark path of illegitimate academic documentation is extensive. It involves alterations of credentials in a variety of ways, from uninventive white-out to mass production of inauthentic certificates and transcripts. The consequences of academic dishonesty are snow-balling cynicism on the value of education and a decline in public trust in the reliability of academic institutions. Reasons for acquiring fake academic credentials In Kenya, like elsewhere in the globe, there is an emerging public with the desire to gain access to tertiary education, and in search of better professional opportunities. Somehow, this has contributed to the proliferation of illegitimate academic documentation. ACADEMIC FRAUDAcademic fraud is a result of both internal and external factors. Internal causes being: personal circumstances, ambitions and ignorance or disregard of conventions that embody what is right and wrong. The external agents include: inconsistencies in defining acceptable academic behaviour; absence of rules to enforce such behaviour; deficiencies in the mechanisms for detecting infractions; and, societal pressure to succeed. Additionally, employers require human capital capable of operating in a competitive business environment. Thus, the value of education qualification is inestimable as it confers advantages over those without them by accentuating the potential competence of the holder. Academic qualifications have therefore been assigned a commercial value. SECREEN EMPLOYEES In line with the foregoing, employers rely on academic qualifications to screen potential employees. The premise being that, the higher the level of academic qualification the greater the abilities, skills and aptitudes necessary to perform a task. Thus, individuals with false certificates can acquire jobs in sensitive professions such as health, national security, engineering and education. Their inherent inferior skills can therefore result in wide-raging consequences. Further, information technology has democratised educational misconduct. Subsequently, what was previously regarded to as isolated cases have mutated from individual to institutional; and, from sporadic to systemic undertakings. SYSTEM OF VALUESAcademic malpractices suggest that some in our midst are inspired by a system of values which begins and ends with the pursuit of what is materially beneficial even at the cost of one’s integrity. In this wrapped frame of mind, how success is attained becomes irrelevant. Ironically, in our contemporary world of instantaneous-results, to ‘succeed’ without working for it, is itself applauded as a demonstration of ingenuity and a fleetness of mind. This is as troubling as it is revealing. My thesis here is that, our society has evolved in a manner that has bastardized social values. It has replaced them with the notion that what is good is what serves one’s material interests and bodily pleasures. ACADEMIC INTEGRITY Unquestioningly, laws that define such actions as wrong exist. But, when we as a people fail to accept the existence of right and wrong from humanistic viewpoint, the law becomes a mere irritant whose provisions need to be subverted. That said, what can we do to re-build a culture of academic integrity? First, zero tolerance of academic corruption must begin with each of us. Oftentimes, we belabour the faults, commissions and omissions of others without reflecting on our imperfections. Nonetheless, a dismissive and laissez faire attitude will give birth to a vicious cycle of cynicism, pessimism, distrust and apathy. Second, we must put aside our conveniences and faint-heartedness and challenge any academic malpractice. Only then can integrity and probity become the norm in our education system and academic corruption becomes a social aberration. Third, the consequences of academic corruption must be made clear to all stakeholders. ESTABLISH LEGITIMACY Fourth, a quasi-scientific examination should be used to establish the legitimacy of random academic documents. This will ensure a transparent review leading to evidential confirmation of academic fraud or otherwise. Fifth, government intervention and punitive measures must be coherent, consistent and transparent. Importantly, law enforcers must grant no quarter to academic scoundrels. Broadly therefore, to get out of this academic conundrum, we need to move beyond regulation and punishment by embracing a culture of integrity. LONG-TERM AMBITION As a basis for such a long-term ambition, action on the pedagogical front is imperative in order to dissolve the causes of academic deceit. Importantly, early and continued education on ethical behaviour and reduction of excessive pressure upon students are long overdue. For, fighting academic fraud is not an end in itself, but a means to restore the right order of things.  Prof Kibicho is the author of among other books, Sex Tourism in Africa and Traditional Martial Arts. kibichowanjohi@yahoo.co.uk Twitter: KibichoWanjohi@com  