An Al-Shabaab commander was killed as Kenya Defence Forces (KDF) troops moved to protect a camp occupied by Somalia National Army in Kuday. Bashe Nure Hassan was killed alongside one of his lieutenants. Military spokesman Joseph Owouth said the terrorists had attacked the camp before KDF reinforcements came in. Three AK-47 assault rifles, 11 magazines, a satellite phone and 290 rounds of ammunition belonging to the terrorists were seized. “Amison/KDF soldiers remain vigilant and will continue to relentlessly pursue the terrorists to ensure peace and security of our country Kenya and will also support operations to stabilise Somalia,” Colonel Owuoth said. He added: “In the subsequent engagement, Amisom troops supported the Somali allies using mortars and machine gun fire to scuttle the terrorist attack.” NO KDF CASUALTIES Kenya has more than 4,000 troops fighting in Somalia under Amisom. The Somali camp is adjacent to KDF base in Kuday. Kenyan troops set up the camp at the port town in March 2015 after ousting Al-Shabaab administration after a fierce battle. The capture of Kuday was reminiscent of the fall of Kismayu two and half years earlier. Both port towns were taken in amphibious operations by KDF. Colonel Owouth also that Somalia army and KDF did not incur casualties during the 3am battle. Unconfirmed number of Shabaab terrorists fled the battle field with injuries. Under Amisom, Kenyan troops are deployed in sector two, but have been carrying out operations in other areas that are not manned, whenever Al-Shabaab set up camps there. Other sectors are occupied by forces from Ethiopia, Uganda, Burundi and Djibouti. AL-QAEDA TIES This is another success KDF has bagged following the killing of 57 Shabaab militants near Afmadow on March 2. READ: KDF kills 57 Al-Shabaab in Somalia Colonel Owouth, at the time, said that five pickup trucks mounted with heavy machine guns and other weapons belonging to the terror group were destroyed. Kenya first deployed soldiers in Somalia in October 2011 under the official slogan Operation Linda Nchi before they were amalgamated into Amisom the following year. Al-Shabaab has over the years attracted foreign fighters especially after it merged with global terror organisation Al-Qaeda. British terrorist Thomas Evans was among 18 Shabaab militants killed after they attacked a KDF camp in Baure, Lamu County. He was a core member of Jeshi Ayman, the Al-Shabaab faction that has set camp in Boni Forest that traverses the Somalia-Kenya border. TARGETING CIVILIANSA faction of Al-Shabaab last year pledged allegiance to Islamic State, the terrorist group that has declared territorial jurisdiction in parts of Syria and Iraq. At times Al-Shabaab has retaliated by targeting soft targets within, causing death of unarmed civilians. The worst attacks were the raid at Garissa University in which 147 people were killed including students and security officers, and the death of 71 shoppers at Westgate mall.  