The long awaited reconstruction of amenities destroyed during Al-Shabaab terror attacks in Lamu County has finally been launched. The reconstruction, being undertaken by the national government, will have schools, health centres and administration offices which were destroyed by the terrorists between 2014 and 2015 get new lease of life. Most of the amenities targeted in the exercise are within the Linda Boni Operation zones. Addressing the public in Pandanguo during the official launching ceremony on Thursday, Lamu County Commissioner Joseph Kanyiri said the reconstruction work that is expected to cost over Sh20 million is expected to be complete in two months. Mr Kanyiri said the main objective of the exercise is to restore normalcy among affected communities who have been living in fear due to the terror attacks two years ago. TOP PRIORITY A classroom that was burnt down at Pandanguo Primary school by the militants in July 2014 is among the amenities given top priority in the reconstruction exercise. Similarly, the Mpeketoni assistant county commissioner’s office and the Basuba dispensary are among those being reconstructed in order to allow locals to continue enjoying the respective services. According to Mr Kanyiri, chairs and over 100 mattresses will be purchased as replacement for those that were burnt and stolen by militants at the Mangai Boarding Primary School on August 15, 2015. “The government is keen to restore the face of those amenities that were destroyed,” said Mr Kanyiri. He lauded the officers conducting the multi-agency security — Operation Linda Boni —who he said had helped in restoring peace and calm in the entire Lamu County and its borders. COMFORTABLE Mr Kanyiri urged residents in the county to continue cooperating with the officers conducting the operation in order to ensure the peace is maintained. Villagers who were interviewed by the Nation in Pandanguo village shortly after the launch of the reconstruction exercise praised the national government for its commitment to ensuring their lives are comfortable. “We are happy with the dedicated efforts by the government in ensuring we live comfortably in our villages. We are protected. We are also happy that finally the buildings which were destroyed by Al-Shabaab will now get a new face,” said Mr Musa Guyo, a Pandanguo elder.   Despite Kenyan authorities doubting Al-Shabaab’s complicity and blaming the attacks on domestic opposition political networks, Shabaab insists it orchestrated recent Mpeketoni attacks.