Petroleum is a high-stakes business. It attracts investors with diverse expertise, resources and networks. Key dealers are widely known, most of them global conglomerates with big brand names and substantial resources. They do clean business and the government earns good revenues from them in taxes and other statutory remissions. However, in the mix are fraudsters and charlatans who make huge sums of money through dubious means. At the weekend, the Energy Regulatory Commission (ERC) expressed concern over dishonest dealers who never pay taxes despite raking in colossal sums of money. Worse, some of them deal in adulterated fuel, which can easily damage motor vehicles and pose grave danger to motorists and the general travelling public. THREAT TO ECONOMY In fact, such fuel has a serious impact on the environment. It is incredible that these dealers obtain fuel through unorthodox means, adulterate and sell to unsuspecting customers – although some buy knowingly – but get away with the deals. Another dangerous group are dealers who bring in fuel allegedly for export, but which they divert and sell locally. These are cheats who short-circuit the system to evade paying taxes. Put together, these rogue dealers are a menace to the industry and the economy. They evade taxes and other statutory levies and bring into the market low quality products that have negative effects on vehicles, machinery and the environment. ACT NOWUnfortunately, as the ERC observes, the trade in what is patently illegal fuel has sucked in dealers, transporters, errant security teams, as well as wayward Kenya Revenue Authority and immigration officials. For example, documents are easily forged to let in fuel under the guise of transit goods, but which quickly finds outlets in the local market. This is the reason ERC and the various agencies must rein in rogue dealers and their accomplices. Illegal fuel trade is not new; it has gone on for years because it benefits many people in the chain. The cartels are known. What is required is the conviction to deal firmly with them. And, now is time the authorities broke up the cartels once for all.  