Western Region are the 2017 National Primary Schools Games overall winners. The region, made up of Busia, Bungoma, Kakamega and Vihiga counties, managed to defended their title after a stiff completion from the Rift Valley side in the games that ended Saturday at Meru Teachers Training College. In girls’ football, Western edged defending champions Nyanza 2-0 to lift the trophy. Nyanza started with purpose, dictating possession and creating chances but they failed to translate them into goals. The teams went into the break of this tense affair tied 0-0. Western returned re-energised in the second half and it was no surprise when Justin Cherop scored the first goal in the 55th minute. Shaline Opisa scored her team’s second goal 10 minutes before the final whistle to end the encounter as a contest. Western could have won by a bigger margin but their captain Opasi failed to convert a penalty kick five minutes to the end. Western coach Bertrand Imbeywa said the final match was an easy one compared to the semi-final and last year’s final. “The game started under a tense mood in the first half but after my players relaxed they started to play football and that is how we overcame the defending champions easily in the second half,” he said. The region also won gymnastic, handball and girls’ volleyball titles. Rift Valley were second followed by Nyanza, Eastern, Coast, Nairobi, Central and North Eastern respectively. Despite finishing last, North Eastern were the most improved region. They finished fourth in boys’ football and volleyball. Coast regions lost their boys’ football title to Rift Valley after a 2-1 defeat. The game started on a very fast pace that saw the Rift Valley side scoring in the first half. However, the coast side equalised in the second half. The game ended 1-1 forcing extra time. Rift Valley managed to score the winning goal three minutes before the final whistle. Rift Valley retained both boys’ and girls’ volleyball titles and were crowned new boy’s handball kings. Endau Primary School from Eastern reclaimed the boys’ gymnastic trophy which they had lost to Emakina Primary School from Busia County last year. Endau have been the gymnastic champions since 2011 both boys and girls. Nyanza were crowned girl’s netball queens. Coast region will host next year’s national games.   St Cecilia Misikhu and St Anthony’s Boys Kitale are the hockey champions.