Q. I recently got a job offer from a rival media house. I am to start my new job in two months’ time, and ideally, I should issue a month’s notice, which I haven’t been able to give due to intimidation that comes with issuing a resignation notice. I have worked here for four years and have seen how they treat employees intending to leave the company. The extremes of it can be as inhumane as them holding on to the last pay cheque as long as they want. I want the easiest yet professional mature way to leave. Please help me.  I know it is not easy to see a good employee leave, but there is a reason why all work contracts have a termination clause. People join organisations for reasons ranging from financial to career growth, work challenge, training, location to even culture, and when the needs are met, others arise, and if not addressed, people leave and seek answers elsewhere. Progressive employers do not see exits as a threat, their philosophy is to understand the needs of their employees and make every effort to create an enabling work environment knowing despite such efforts employees will still leave. My advise is that despite what you have heard, do the right thing and meet the requirements of your contract. Perhaps the employees who have been treated differently did not give adequate notice, and as you know, notice can be served or paid in lieu. Make every effort to leave in a professional way - there are many reasons for that. One, it is the right thing to do as your contract states. Two, if your salary is withheld without reason, you have legal basis to follow up and have it paid even after your departure. Three, there are other claims you should state in your letter to ensure they are not overlooked, such as unpaid leave, pension or gratuity and any off days that may be outstanding. Four, media companies in Kenya are not many, in a few years time, you may find yourself at the doors to this employer looking for a promotion. Despite the culture of intimidation, you are absolutely under no obligation to disclose where you are heading. You only share such information if you need to or if your contract requires you to. How you leave any future job will continue to be important as it is now common practice for employers to pursue boomerang employees. You will never be sought after if your employment record has unresolved issues.  