Youth Fund Chairman Ronald Osumba has singled out a self-help group from Narok County for meeting the objectives of the fund. Mr Osumba commended Llanyuak Self Help Group for its success at enabling youth become self-reliant and start their own business ventures instead of waiting for formal employment after completion of school. “There are many groups within Narok County that have done well. But Llanyuak Self Help Group can stand out as a true pillar of what the fund is expected to deliver,” said Mr Osumba in Narok County Youth Fund office on Tuesday. He said that the group qualifies for more funding based on the ability of its members to use wisely the soft loans acquired through the Youth Enterprise Development Fund to turn around their lives. FOUR YEARS AGO Formed four years ago, the group that comprises 12 young men from Narok Constituency has enabled its members to actualise their dreams by buying and selling livestock to earn a living in a community where wealth and prosperity is measured on the size of an individual’s herd. Group Chairman Sintole ole Sadera said their main objective of starting the group was to buy and sell goats to enable them become self-reliant. “We wanted to do something that we have passion for. We have been able to start our project, thanks to the Jubilee government's Youth Fund initiative. Now we make money through selling livestock in the local markets,” said Mr Sadera. In February 2014, Mr Sadera said the group asked the help from Youth Fund office in Narok. After assessing their plan, their loan of Sh50,000 was approved. MADE PROFIT Six months later, the group made enough profit and paid off the loan before applying for another loan of Sh100,000 in 2015. The group now owns motorcycles and are in Boda Boda business with plans afoot for another loan application worth Sh200, 000 to expand their businesses. “Youth Fund has supported us by offering affordable loans and entrepreneurship training which has enabled us manage our businesses successfully,” said ole Sadera. The Youth Fund is national government initiative under the Vision 2030. Its strategic focus is on enterprise development as a key strategy that will increase economic opportunities for, and participation by Kenyan Youth in nation building. The Fund seeks to create employment opportunities for young people through entrepreneurship and encouraging them to be job creators and not job seekers. It does this by providing easy and affordable financial and business development support services to youth who are keen on starting or expanding businesses.  