1. The documentary you did for StanChart on inspiring Africans was a great summary of everything you do. How did that come about? I once took part in the shooting of a pilot for Afrofilms International Limited. They were asked about young business people in the creative arts and seeing as they had my footage, they shared with their client, who surprisingly liked what they said. Months later, I was contacted, an offer was made and the rest was history. 2. Tell us a little more about Skill Factory - where is it held? How often? Past guests? Skill Factory is an event based around a workshop. We constantly hear the success stories of people in the creative field, but we never get to hear the inner workings of potentially being a business, marketing oneself as a brand, or better yet, how to play a part in the creative industry if you have no talent at all! Skill Factory wants to be that event that not only entertains but also educates. We have had two events so far with headline performances by Khaligraph Jones, Monitah, 4nzee Kevin Grands, and Shukid. 3. Do you think the reason 2D animation isn’t producing as much content in Kenya is because of refusing to get over the hump that you did - getting over the idea that it has to be abroad, or you have to fly out to learn it? The only thing stopping 2D from taking off in Kenya is purely monetary. In 2009, while I was working at Tiger Tinga Productions, there were 43 animators in one room. None of them foreign. Since then, many of us have made pilot pitches that many television stations choose to not be involved in the production process, just the end product. There is no Nickelodeon, Cartoon Network or Netflix pumping money into content production. Instead of crying about it, many of us chose to build from scratch. If you can’t make the cartoon just yet, let’s make comic books, strips and mini-animations on YouTube to get the curiosity going worldwide.4. Speaking of home turf, where did you eventually learn your craft? I studied animation at Shang Tao Media Arts College. It’s at Hazina Towers, Nairobi. I was taught the basics. Since then, it’s been a lot of YouTube watching of tutorials, binging on anime and Disney material to slowly create my own content from what I learn from them. 5. What do you think are other potential resources wannabe animators can use. I’d say once you study the software, even through YouTube videos, you can then move on to doing the work. It’s a lot of hit and miss, but there’s a bright side to this. Many of the greatest animators in history never went to school. I submit two names: Jack Kirby and Walt Disney. You do need the ability to draw though. And a great level of patience.6. Where can we find your latest comic?Our books can be found at Between The Lines Bookshop — Village Market. ****** HOTSPOT MatchMentor: Creative EconomyThe Arena presents MatchMentor: Creative Economy. The Arena is about ‘creating media and events to inspire young people to make better decisions for themselves and their communities.’ One of the ways they do this is through events like MatchMentor, which is designed to give a platform for potential mentors and mentees to meet. This particular event specifically targets those in the creative world ranging from musicians, writers, make-up artists, dancers and actors. The first event last November drew professionals in the media industry such as Victoria Rubadiri and Robert Nagila. At Saturday’s event, attendees will have a chance to engage one-on-one with industry savvy guests, take part in a panel discussion, workshop sessions and an exciting ‘Shoot Your Shot’ session. And, there will be a sign language interpreter present! You can check out more about their events on www.thearenakenya.org. ****** BLOG REVIEWMark Maish calls himself the Broke Billionaire, and writes on his blog about his exploits, from lifestyle to travel, to what I think are supposed to be fictional stories – but they sound like they happened to him. I’m talking about one of his most recent posts about a seductress who tempted him and then suddenly the whole night turned awry. You might have read him before from one of his more popular pieces, the Kenyan Middle Class Nightmare, a few years ago, and he has been growing in leaps and bounds since then – so much that he is nominated in the Creative Writing Category this year in the annual Bloggers Association of Kenya awards. Have a look through the blog and see if you want to vote for him too.   Cherono Maritim is the Founder of The Arena Kenya.