ODM nominations in Lamu County were marred with delays as some aspirants complained that names of their family members and relatives were missing from the voter register. This forced some stations including Lamu Social Hall to begin operations at around 8.30 am instead of 6 am. “We reported here at 6am but up to now we haven’t voted since we discovered that members of my family are not in the register. This is shocking,” said Mr Feiswal Ganzel, an aspirant at Mkomani Ward. Similar complaints were raised by Mrs Mudathir Athman. “My children and I are not in the register despite the fact that we are registered. We don’t understand why the names are not in the register,” said Mrs Mudathir. But speaking to Nation in Lamu, County ODM Coordinator Zahara Shee said the exercise was progressing smoothly and called on Lamu voters to turn up in large numbers and vote for their preferred candidates. She said those complaining of their names missing in the voter register might not have registered. “Our voter registration exercise ended on March 27 this year and I suspect those complaining of names missing in the voter register might not have registered within the period that ended March 27th,” said Mrs Shee. A spot check by the Nation showed a low voter turnout. At the Lamu Primary School polling centre, only 10 people had turned up to cast their votes by 10 am. ODM nominations in Lamu are only targeting MCAs in Mkomani in Lamu Island, Mkunumbi and Witu in the mainland. At Mkomani Ward, aspirant Feiswal Awadh Ganzel is facing Abdalla Tete while in Mkunumbi Ward Abubakar Masoud is facing Mr Anwar Said. At Witu Ward, Johnson Kitsao Ndokolani, Mr Thomas Barissa and Mr Samuel Mkare are fighting for the ODM ticket. Lamu County also held party primary for Amani National Congress (ANC) for position of MCA for Witu Ward. Two contestants, Mr Jonathan Mketta and Mr Harreh Ndzai are vying for the position. Governor Issa Timamy of ANC who has already been handed a direct nomination. He told the Nation on Saturday that the ANC nominations at Witu were going on smoothly as planned. Mr Timamy called for patience and peace among locals as the county holds the nominations for various political parties. “My appeal to the Lamu people is that let us conduct peaceful nominations and to all the candidates, I wish them the best of luck. I urge those who will be defeated to accept what the people have decided. Causing chaos during this crucial period defeats the whole purpose of democracy. Democracy is the will of the people and if the people choose a particular candidate then that should be it,” said Mr Timamy.  