Any young woman or man in Kenya today appears besieged. Parents think their children aren t serious about life. Whatever that means. Teachers think that pupils are too lazy these days. As if humans beings aren t generally a lazy bunch.The pious curse the youth for their sinful ways. Yet if you are a Christian, you know well that you were born full of sin. Or that Satan is always looking for ways to tempt you into wickedness. And the young are generally vulnerable. The politicians only see the youth as baskets of votes (this is what they mean by the phrase the youth bulge ) and muscle to be called on to protect them or beat up their enemies.So, where do the youth really belong? Who are they? What stake do they have in Kenya? What dreams do they dream at night, during the day or as they attempt to exit this much maligned age-set? What can be done to make the youth either realise their dreams, assuming that the society accepts those dreams as valid, or to mature into acceptable and productive adults? Are the youth simply indolent people, unwilling to work and only interested in handouts?Not really, at least according to Mbugua Ng ang a in the story of one young man, G. Chocha, as told in The Weaver of Dreams (Oxford, 2016).G. Chocha is a young man whiling away his time and future shooting pool at Pengine, the local pub , and engaging in all manner of things the youth do in his hometown of Maua. According to G. Chocha, Being in Mau had its joys. Life just got by. Days rolled seamlessly into weeks, weeks into months and months into years. He watches Safari Rally once a year. Is besotted with a girl, Mary Jane, who isn t returning his love. He is poor but Mary Jane comes from a rich family. G. Chocha lives with his mother, who works for Mary Jane s mother. His father is seeking a livelihood, which doesn t really come to much, in the city.INNOVATING ON DREAMSTherefore, G. Chocha is like so many young men in this country; not poor, not rich. But unlikely to become who they would wish to be because socio-economic circumstances bind them to a cycle of poverty, which immobilises them. It is a world where dreaming big , as many youth are told today, is near impossible.But one day, a miracle literally happens. G. Chocha s mother gets him an opportunity to go to Germany on a scholarship to study. It was sheer luck that someone had gone to the home of Mrs. Makena where G. Chocha s mother worked looking for her. The gentleman thought that since Mrs Makena was a school principal, she would know bright but needy students who could be sponsored to go for further studies.G. Chocha ends up in Germany to study entrepreneurship. He excels in his group and graduates among the top in his class. It is assumed that this training would help him set up a business venture back in Maua. In many senses, this is G. Chocha s dream, considering that during his time in Germany he had not only attended class but also worked temporarily in different organisations, thus gaining some hands on experience.The Weaver of Dreams raises a number of questions for the reader. The first and probably most urgent one is what a society should do to integrate the millions of young people who don t have something else to do after school.Of course the parallel question to this is: Is our education equipping school leavers with the requisite skills to help them fit into the society? Consider that apart from shooting pool and idling at the market centre, G. Chocha and his friends aren t doing anything else that is productive. They seem like ready material for crime. Yet should they resort to delinquency, they would end up incarcerated or condemned to death, like the characters in Meja Mwangi s Kill Me Quick.Indeed, even though G. Chocha thinks that life in Maua had its pleasures, clearly his happiness increases and he matures into adulthood when he goes to college in Germany. There he doesn t just learn about entrepreneurship. He gets to understand why innovation is important for human progress.But how does innovation come about? This is another question The Weaver of Dreams raises. Innovation happens where there is freedom and space to dream. And what is to dream for young people? Where would they make their visions into reality?This is where technical and vocational education comes into play. Practical education always allows for acquisition of skills that can be adapted in different contexts. If one is taught how to make a stool, it is easier for the same person to make a chair and a bed. A practically trained farmer would easily understand why environmental conservation is important.Investment in technical and practical education by our society, emphasis on learning that directly relates theory to practice, is what will unleash the dreams of the millions of young Kenyans like G. Chocha. But the ultimate question of The Weaver of Dreams is: whose responsibility is it to interpret and activate the dreams of the youth? email print email print He urged Kenyans to unite to fight challenges that afflict the nation. #ElectionsKE Supporters of rivals in Busia governorship race fight ahead of primaries.