There comes a time in history when brave youth choose to defy norms to claim leadership. Such a time is here. Kenya’s population is currently at 41 million, with about 1 million Kenyans being born every year. It is estimated that 78 per cent of the population is below the age of 35. If not dealt with, the consequences of any population bulge are dire. That’s precisely why youth must unite and formulate a manifesto that speaks about their issues in-depth. We have witnessed a doctors’ strike that lasted more than three months, a teachers’ strike, a lecturers’ strike, drought, countless scandals — and all the while our politicians have been gallivanting through the country in search of votes (before the official campaign period), flaunting their newly acquired helicopters and vehicles. QUESTIONABLE EXPENDITURES Further, politicians have increased their salaries and made questionable expenditures. The youth have been left powerless, apathetic and disengaged. Worse still, the youth have often been completely robbed. Kazi kwa Vijana and the National Youth Service programmes, for example, were allocated billions of shillings to give employment to thousands of youth, but the funds were apparently misappropriated. It remains a game of chasing the wind as all those implicated remain free with some seeking political office. During President Uhuru Kenyatta’s State of the Nation address last month, he said, “Despite having teething problems, the National Youth Service Programme, through the recruitment of cohorts in Kibera, has changed lives.” The odious amount of theft was reduced to a teething problem! UWEZO FUND The Constituency Development Fund and Uwezo Fund, among other national government initiatives, are also riddled in corruption. A majority of young people do not seem to be optimistic about the future. A student recently asked me, “Why should I vote? I don’t see the difference between the choices I have. I am yet to understand the point of it”. However, it has not always been this way. There has been optimism and hope before. In 2010, Kenya promulgated a new Constitution – a document meant to instil, encourage and support positive national development. Youth should particularly take a look at two articles which cover their most basic needs. Article 55 is the “youth section”, touching on access to relevant education and training, be represented and participate in political, social, economic spheres, access to employment and protection. Article 43 is on social rights — the right to healthcare, housing, freedom from hunger, and clean water. The youth have been deprived of some of these rights. DELIVERING HONEST EXAMSThe President spoke about his proudest achievement in the administration in delivering honest exams in 2016 when he said, “There is no corruption worse than that directed at the youth.” He is well aware that rampant corruption is robbing youth of their future but, like he hinted in the past, he is powerless. The law ought to come to fruition but only if it is followed. It is time for all youth to rise from their acquired passivity. The well-articulated articles of the Constitution must be implemented to become a reality for the youth. It is with this in mind that the youth have come together to formulate a manifesto to be presented to political parties. It is a clarion call to all political players to heed what the youth demographic is demanding. We refuse the sidelining and belittling that is used to engage us. We are an undeniable agenda in the upcoming General Election and must be treated as such. No longer can political players evade the vital role we play, neither can they assume that we are simply a chaos-churning demographic. YOUTH MANIFESTOWe are the stakeholders of Kenya’s future and that is why today, through the Coalition for Kenya Youth Manifesto, we are launching a National Youth manifesto in Ruiru at Zetech University. It assembles young people from all over Kenya, from all walks of life, and solidifies the common goals and aspirations they share into a united philosophy. The manifesto constitutes the core of the projected youth agenda. We recognise that for the interests of the youth and Kenya’s future, such measures must be made, followed through and accounted for. Although there has been an increase in young people in Parliament due to affirmative action, their influence is yet to be felt. With a manifesto, parties will have common goals that youth are seeking in national government. It is a lie if any political leader assumes that they can walk towards August 2017 without listening to young people.  The writer is Executive Director of Siasa Place; Twitter: @NerimaW  