President Uhuru Kenyatta dismissed the National Super Alliance as a disorganised outfit out to divide Kenyans so that they can ascend to power through selfish means. Accompanied by his deputy William Ruto during a tour of Narok County, the President said the Opposition had killed democracy by selecting their flag-bearer in boardroom meetings instead of giving room to Kenyans to decide. “They have no plan and have failed to show leadership even in the past when they served in government,” he told a rally in Kilgoris, adding that Nasa leaders had lost direction and should be rejected in the August 8 General Election. Narok Governor Samuel Tunai, MPs Gideon Konchella (Kilgoris), Korei ole Lemein (Narok South), Lemanken Kiloku (Narok East) and Woman Rep Soipan Kudate hosted the two leaders. The Head of State had a basket of goodies for the residents, which included Sh250 million medical equipment for Transmara West Hospital and a market in Kilgoris Town. IMPROVED HEALTH SECTORConstruction of the Sh70 million market, he said, was initiated during his time as Finance minister as part of the economic stimulus programme of 2009. It was then completed by the Narok county government. While lauding the medical equipment project, Mr Ruto said the Jubilee government had ensured the success of devolution. "You can now access x-ray, theatre and other basic medical services without travelling all the way to Nairobi or Eldoret,’ he said. And at Narok Stadium, President Kenyatta and Mr Ruto asked residents to adopt the “six-piece” voting on election’s day and elect Jubilee Party candidates only. “I urge you to vote a Jubilee Party leadership in Narok, from governor, senator, woman rep, MPs and MCAs in the coming elections. It’s beneficial for you to remain in government,” said the Head of State. He assured Jubilee aspirants that no one would get a direct ticket and that all hopefuls would square it out at the primaries. READ: Jubilee Party endorses Shahbal for Mombasa governor While warning the opposition that they will be defeated, National Assembly Majority Leader Adan Duale said that they have a ready team to take on Nasa on election day. HONOURABLE CAMPAIGNINGSpeaking on behalf of the community, Mr Tunai and Mr Konchella asked the President to ensure improved infrastructure in the region. “We have the Suna-Kehancha tarmac road in the neighbouring Migori County and another from Sotik in the neighbouring Bomet County. The roads stopped at the Narok borders. We ask the President to extend these roads to our region,” said Mr Tunai. Mr Konchella petitioned the government to ensure street lights in Kilgoris Town to enable a 24 hour economy. And speaking after laying a foundation stone for Dikirr Level 4 Hospital slated to cost over Sh200 million, the President urged politicians to conduct politics with decorum. Violence, incitement and wrangling over leadership, he said, were “misguided routes to leadership that apart from planting the seed of hatred and enmity, did not serve the interests of the electorate”. Additional reporting by George Sayagie, Eric Matara and PSCU  