ASHINGTON White House press secretary Sean Spicer apologised on Wednesday for “insensitive” remarks in which he seemed to favourably compare Adolf Hitler’s actions during the Holocaust to atrocities carried out now by strongman Bashar al-Assad in Syria. During a White House briefing Spicer sought to intensify criticism of Assad, painting the Syrian leader’s suspected use of sarin nerve agent against civilians last week as historically evil. “You had someone as despicable as Hitler who didn’t even sink to using chemical weapons,” the spokesman said during a White House press briefing, momentarily forgetting the Holocaust and prompting outraged calls for his resignation. DEATHSThe Holocaust saw millions sent to their deaths in Nazi gas chambers. A few hours later, a contrite Spicer appeared on US television expressing regret for the comments, which in the hours after he made them were greeting with growing outrage and demands for his resignation. “Frankly, I mistakenly used an inappropriate and insensitive comment about the Holocaust and there is no comparison,” he told CNN. “For that I apologise. It was a mistake to do that.” Mr Spicer’s comments, which came during the Jewish festival of Passover, sparked calls from anti-defamation groups and opposition Democrats for his ouster. FIRED “Sean Spicer must be fired, and the President must immediately disavow his spokesman’s statements,” said top congressional Democrat Nancy Pelosi. “Either he is speaking for the president, or the president should have known better than to hire him.” Mr Spicer — the most public face of the Donald Trump’s administration after the president himself — has been a frequent target of ire and satirists for his angry denunciations of press coverage and sometimes loose grasp of the facts. He was pilloried for his first appearance in the press briefing room in January, when he browbeat journalists and falsely insisted Trump had the biggest inaugural audience ever. He later caused an international incident by claiming British signals intelligence agency GCHQ helped former president Barack Obama spy on Mr Trump. BRITISH SPIES Furious British spies described the claim as “nonsense” and “utterly ridiculous,” forcing Spicer to explain his comments to the British ambassador. But his latest claim brought anger from across the political spectrum and looks of astonishment from the assembled White House press corps, who offered Mr Spicer a chance to clarify. “I think when you come to sarin gas, there was no — he was not using the gas on his own people the same way that Assad is doing,” Mr Spicer said, returning to the subject. As journalists shouted “what about the Holocaust?” Spicer continued, “I think there is clearly... I understand the point, thank you, thank you I appreciate that.” In Berlin, German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s spokesman today said comparisons with Nazi atrocities were generally ill-advised.   US President Donald Trump’s administration announced it will cut donations to Fund, citing violation of key US law.