President Uhuru Kenyatta on Thursday assured the international sporting family that Kenya will be ready to host both this year s IAAF World Under-18 Championships in athletics and football s Africa Nations Championship next year. These two engagements are scheduled to take place this July and next January respectively, although there have been concerns about Kenya s preparedness for both. We are improving our facilities in readiness for the events, even as we focus on constructing a number of modern stadia across the country, said President Kenyatta. He was speaking at the Kenyatta International Convention Centre, Nairobi after receiving the Queen s Baton for the 2018 Commonwealth Games that will be held in Australia. The President also paid tribute to Kenyan sportsmen and women, noting their talent, skill and diligence has brought glory to the country. He also urged the athletes to work hard and maintain discipline. In rugby, as in tennis, as in football, as in so many other sports, Kenya stands tall. Down the years, your talent, your skill, and your diligence have brought glory to this country. Today as in years past, we celebrate you, President Kenyatta said. Let me also say what a pleasure it is to receive this relay baton on behalf of Kenya, before it continues its long journey to Australia. That it is passing through Kenya shows the world s confidence in Kenya s sportsmanship, in our talent, and in our promise. In attendance were, among others, Australia High Commissioner to Kenya John Feakes, Sports Cabinet Secretary Hassan Wario, Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero, new Sports Principal Secretary Peter Kaberia, federation bosses and athletes including world and Olympic 800 metres champion and record holder David Rudisha. This occasion reminds us that the Commonwealth Games are around the corner and we should therefore start preparing. God willing, I want to grab that gold... it is the only medal that I really want, said Rudisha, who bagged silver during the last Commonwealth Games in Glasgow in 2014. email print email print He urged Kenyans to unite to fight challenges that afflict the nation. #ElectionsKE Supporters of rivals in Busia governorship race fight ahead of primaries.