Unknown people broke into a warehouse where ODM elections materials were stored. As a result, the nominations in Nairobi will be on Sunday. ODM acting secretary-general Agnes Zani said the central committee held a meeting for hours and decided to disband the party’s Nairobi branch elections board. A new team, she said, has been appointed. She spoke during a press conference at Serena Hotel, Nairobi, that was attended by the National Elections Board chairperson Judith Pareno and governors Hassan Joho (Mombasa) and Evans Kidero (Nairobi). Kitutu Masaba MP Timothy Bosire and Wundanyi MP Thomas Mwadeghu were also present. Deputy party leader Joho will oversee the nominations. Hundreds of ODM supporters in Nairobi went home disappointed. Some were at polling stations at 5 am. PUT HOUSE IN ORDER “We came here at 6 am but as at 9 am there were no signs voting would take place,” said Elly Odero at Embakasi Primary School. Mr Julius Onyango asked the party to put its house in order, as postponements discourage voters. Mr Babu Owino, an aspirant for Embakasi East constituency, said: “We have invested a lot. Yesterday I used about Sh6 million to mobilise my supporters to come out and vote only for it to be postponed.” Other aspirants in the area on ODM ticket include Mr Francis Masinde, Mr Geroge Bhutto Obiga, Mr Boniface Nyagaka Mosoti, Mr Joash Omwenga Kengere, Mr Philip Nyauncho Bosire and Mr Manyasi Lukas Baridi. TECHNICAL ISSUES In Westlands, Ms Beatrice Kwamboka, a Woman Rep aspirant, said she waited for voting materials in vain at her Kangemi Primary polling station from 6 am. “I am now heading to Orange House to find out what they mean by ‘technical issues’,” she said. Aspirant for Parklands ward Mike Gumo speaking at Highridge Primary School said there was no official communication by the party or presiding officers. At Kibra, the cancelation was met with anger, frustrations and disappointment. Parliamentary aspirant Martin Owuor Judah, said: We are only getting a lot of propaganda.” Said Martin Owuor Judah, a parliamentary aspirant: “My supporters are downcast.” At Mathare and Ruaraka constituencies hundreds went away disappointed.  —Reports by Dennis Odunga Ouma Wanzala, Lillian Mutavi, Collins Omulo and Stella Cherono  