Auka Gecheo, why did you guys do this to Kenyan football? Why did you guys just pull out of the league? But then again I understand. There s a lot of rot in Kenyan football. A lot of wheeler dealing, some little tinkering here and there which we all know about.Now you people should understand this. SuperSport is a company made up of shareholders. People who check the books of accounts every morning. They are not the kind of people who will throw good money after bad money.So now we are in deep problem. Players allowances being unpaid. Coaches sulking.Club chairmen worried. But then again I believe this is the time for Kenyans to come up and rally for their teams. Let s swing off our bar stools and go to the stadiums.If you are a Gor Mahia supporter fuel your car and travel to Mombasa or Nairobi. Today I want to put here what my fellow writers think about the whole deal. Here we have one Tony Anelka writing about it all, So, many are hopping things will take a turn for the good and KPL matches will be back on Supersport soon. Well, it s about time the reality sink in and people forget about KPL matches on their TV for a while. Things are bad.... and I mean bad. For now, we will say let them go but the effects will soon be felt across the league if a saviour doesn t come on board. The league was expanded and that means higher budget in running the league - FKF was to give KPL about Sh25 million for the extra teams but through SportPesa, they have only given KPL about Sh4.9 million. With Supersport pulling out, there is a gap of about Sh70 million and where will KPL get the money to bridge the gap? Will that be the downfall of KPL? Tough times ahead. This is the thing, it s like SuperSport already had a made up mind (from down South) and perhaps this is coming from the business part of it- they are not making anything at all and FKF - KPL wars are just one of the excuses to cling on to get the exit route. And this is what my editor Charles Nyende thinks about it all, So much ado about South African pay television station SuperSport (SS) terminating their broadcast rights deal with the Kenyan Premier League. If SS really, really valued this broadcast deal which should be their baby, right? they would have been fighting tooth and nail to retain it, including going to court or seeking arbitration rather than summarily pulling away from the deal casually citing a breach of contract. email print email print