Kenya Sevens coach Innocent Simiyu has said he will not replace Dan Sikuta and William Ambaka, who withdrew from his team ahead of the Hong Kong Sevens that starts on Friday. We have to deal with the resources that we have as we hope to do a bit of adaptation in terms of positions with players doubling, said Simiyu in a statement issued by Kenya Rugby Union.Simiyu disclosed that experienced Mwamba speedster Collins Injera will play either on the wing or centre, Impala s Sammy Oliech will alternate from fly-half to wing while Homeboyz s Bush Mwale will be field at centre or hooker.Sikuta and Ambaka failed to travel with the Kenya team that left the country on Monday dawn for the Far East.Kenya Cup champions Kabras Sugar withdrew Sikuta from the national team ahead of their Kenya Cup semi-final duel against Homeboyz on Saturday, a move that has incensed the union. PROFESSIONAL DEALAmbaka was reportedly headed to New Zealand to pen a professional deal with an unnamed club. Shujaa are currently placed 12th in the 2016/17 World Rugby Sevens Series standings with 40 points. They will take on Series leaders South Africa, Canada and France in Pool B at the Hong Kong Sevens, the seventh leg of the season.Simiyu said they still have a chance of qualifying for the Cup quarters despite the tough opponents. We came close to beating South Africa twice this season and we have beaten France twice this season. We beat Canada once and lost to them once, said Simiyu. Our target is still to secure 10 points or more from one leg, said Simiyu, who has handed Resolution Impala forward Derrick Mayar his international sevens call-up.Coach Simiyu said that Mayar has pace and was good on the high ball. That is an area we needed to improve on as a team especially in terms of kick-off reception, said Simiyu.Simiyu noted that Hong Kong Sevens that is a three-day tournament is a competition that takes a toll on the players both physically and mentally hence the need to manage the players on the lead up and also during the tournament. We also have to manage their sharpness and how they execute. email print email print Homeboyz have thrown down the gauntlet ahead of their Kenya Cup semi-finals clash against champions Kabras Sugar. He urged Kenyans to unite to fight challenges that afflict the nation. #ElectionsKE Supporters of rivals in Busia governorship race fight ahead of primaries.