When Isaac Macharia won a partial scholarship to study at the Kenya Power Training School in Ruaraka, he would run from Uthiru to Kipande Road, freshen up and hop into a matatu to college. In the evening he would take another matatu to Kipande Road, pick up his clothes and jog all the way back to Uthiru, where he was staying with a friend. “I could only afford the return fare of Sh20,” says the soft-spoken, almost shy Mr Macharia. Today, Mr Macharia runs a school for disadvantaged children in Kibiko, Ngong. “I pledged to myself that when I am financially settled, I would want to give back to society and assist children who are faced with the difficulties I suffered when I was growing up,” explains Mr Macharia, who spent half of his time in secondary school outside school in search of school fees. He is the very exemplification of someone who turns adversity into opportunity. Though his daily jogs to and from college were a means to an end, the experience came in handy when an opportunity to participate in a charity race, organised by Amref, arose. BEST SHOT “I finished top three and with it came an opportunity to fly to Austria,” he recalls. That was in 2001. With his new status as an athlete, Mr Macharia soon started participating in Athletics Kenya organised meets, got himself a manager and was soon travelling all over the world to take place in major international races. His best shot was when he came second to Haile Gebrselassie at the Dubai Full Marathon, recording a personal best time of 2 hours 7 minutes. With some of his earnings, Mr Macharia bought several pieces of land, including a three-acre plot in Kibiku, Ngong where Kenswed School currently stands. The 35-year-old who is still an active long distance runner has also dabbled in coaching and mentoring young athletes. “I have just returned from Japan where I took a 16-year-old boy, who I helped secure an athletics scholarship,” he says. As soon as an income from his athletics started flowing in, Mr Macharia started paying school fees for disadvantaged children from his home area, Nyahururu. Kenswed stands for Kenya and Sweden. His partners come from Sweden. IMPRESSIVE RESULTS They include Mans Zelmerlow, winner of 2015 Euro Vision Music Festival and Jonas Bjorkman, winner of 2004 Wimbledon tennis doubles. The two have formed the Zelmerlow Bjorkman Foundation, which sponsors Kenswed School. The school that started with 47 students, currently has about 300 students both boys and girls. "These students only pay Sh1000, per month for food. Tuition is fully catered for," explains Mr Macharia, who is married to fellow athlete Veronica Nyaruai. In their 2015 KCSE exams, candidates at the school posted impressive results; with 15 qualifying to join university. Last year the number that will join university from the school rose to 18. March 3, was the school’s prize giving day and Mr Zelmerlow was the chief guest. He said he got to know about Kenswed School through his cousin Kasper Skarrie, who, together with friends from Gothenburg University in Sweden, helped build it. “When we formed our foundation four years ago, I asked Kasper if the school needed any help from us and he said yes,” explains Mr Zelmerlow. “That is how we got involved in this project.” MORE SCHOOLS Another thing that made him start supporting the school is his love for Kenya. “Kenya is my favourite country in the world; I love the people for their open nature and the beautiful country, including beaches. That is why I love coming to Kenya on holiday,” says Mr Zelmerlow, who is also a TV presenter and actor in Sweden. Already, the Foundation is building a dormitory for girls in the school, which will be opened in May. “We decided to house the girls first since they are more vulnerable compared to boys,” explains Mr Macharia. Following the success of Kenswed School and with the influence of Mr Macharia, the Zelmerlow Bjorkman Foundation has started building another school in Ethiopia under the guidance of Kenenisa Bekele. “We also have another project in Uganda and soon we shall be doing a project in South Africa,” says Mr Zelmerlow.  