Debate about the quality of university education has dominated public discourse in recent times because of the horrid evidence of decay in the institutions. We are obliged to revisit the matter following the Commission for University Education’s nod to the school-based degree courses, which it had outlawed. Following what has now become its most referenced document, the recent quality audit report recommended the abolition of the school-based degree courses offered by several universities mainly to teachers, who study during school holidays. INCREASING REVENUE The reason was that they were haphazardly organised and did not meet the threshold for award of degrees. However, the commission has now backtracked. Understandably, the courses offered thousands of teachers who do not have university degrees a chance to acquire them. For universities, this has been a sure stream for raking in revenue. What is curious about the decision, however, is that the very reasons that had underpinned the ban in February are still relevant. MONEY ISSUE? The commission had cited universities’ failure to meet the required hours of instruction, contravention of basic admission policies and lack of textbooks. It also raised questions about the lack of facilities in the colleges. Nothing has changed since hence the question: Why the change of tack? Is it due to pressure from universities that have been making money from them? VARSITY REFORMSIn many countries, part-time studies and distance learning have become the established modes of education in an increasingly competitive world where many students have to balance between keeping jobs they depend on and pursuing the studies they need for personal development. Kenya is not an exception. When the course was banned, we argued it was necessary, however painful it was. We are now appalled that the commission is backpedalling. University reforms cannot be achieved through half-measures. Tough and painful decisions must be followed through to the logical end.  