Hello Mr Kitoto, Thank you for the good work you are doing. I am a born-again and committed church and youth team member. I have been in a relationship for two years but my fiancé says he is not ready for a wedding because he doesn’t have enough money. He is employed by the government, and when he told me the amount he earns, I told him it would be enough since I had told my parents not to ask for bride price before we wed. I feel I must wed to fulfill my heart’s desire and it is something I have been praying and fasting about. But we always disagree whenever I talk about us having a church wedding. We have visited both my parents and his, and my parents told him that we should wed and gave us a week to decide on the matter. He has not communicated with me, yet this is the second week. I am so stressed out because of his silence. My mum is telling me hurtful things about getting married without a church wedding, making me fear such a marriage as well as my future. Please tell me what to do. Hi, Thank you for the compliments. We commit ourselves to do all we can to respond to and create an enabling forum where we can handle and share issues concerning relationships. Keep reading. We all need whatever we can get to manage today’s relationships. I sense from your email a sincere desire to have a church wedding. Your values are commendable. However, I get the feeling that your fears have more to do with your mum and what she will say or do. I pray that you and your fiancé come to share these values so that he does not think it is your mother influencing you. BE SINCEREI suggest that you meet him and share the reasons why you feel you must have a church wedding. Be sincere without making any reference to your mother in the discussion. Let him know your values and deep convictions and why they are important to you. I would also say that, as much as a wedding is important to you, it is even more important to understand why marriage is. In the end it is the marriage that lasts, not the wedding. Please get me right; I am not belittling weddings. But let the right convictions about marriage lead both of you to desire a God-honouring marriage, such that your church can bless the union because you have built it on the right foundation. I fear he might go back to his exHi, I am 29 years old while my husband is 33. We have been in this relationship for almost four years. When we met, he did not raise any issues about his ex, although he told me he had one.Two years down the line, he told me that his ex had his baby – a boy. Last year we had an argument and he told me to my face that I was bragging about being with him and yet I didn’t have his child. I was deeply hurt. Then, in early December, he told me that he wanted to bring his child back into his life, so we would have to live with the boy, who is now eight years old. I didn’t have a problem with that.What surprised me was that the child turned out to be a girl; equally surprising was her mother’s name. At one point he told me that some people were advising him to look for another woman to have a child with, although he didn’t tell me who these people were. My worry is, what if he goes back to his ex? What if he feels that I have not given him a child and has developed feelings for them again? I am holding back because we are not officially married.Please advise. Hi, It is not really clear whether you are married to him or not. Secondly, it is not clear whether his ex was a wife, or just girlfriend with whom he had a child. If they were informally married, then I see him doing the same thing to you. I believe a baby should not be simply a consequence of sexual intimacy but a decision that is carefully thought through. Having a baby is a responsibility we should be prepared to bear to the end. I am afraid this is not what I see in your man. In addition, there is no guarantee that every marriage will produce a baby. What I am not sure about is whether the absence of a baby in your relationship is due to your inability to conceive or a decision you have made to wait. KNOW YOUR PARTNERI would prefer that the two of you redefine your relationship. Are you now his wife? Why does he want you for a wife? Does he believe that he found what he was looking for in you? What if you cannot bear him children, would he still love you for who you are? Knowing what you want in a man it very important. If you get satisfactory answers to these questions, you will know whether his desire is to have a child with you, or whether he is just playing games. Remember, having a baby is not a simple matter. I believe it should be a mutually agreed upon decision because of the responsibility that comes with it. I pray that you will watch your steps and do your homework better. He doesn’t care about me and our kids Dear Kitoto, After five years of marriage, my husband has taken little care of me and our two children. To him, it about his friends, job and family. I have been very lonely so I offered to get a separation from him until he decides what he wants, but he begged me to stay. I am not part of the furniture. How can he say he loves me when does all these things that annoy me? Anne Hi,Sorry for what you are facing in your relationship. It is commendable how you have managed for five years. As much as some men find it a struggle to show romance to their wives, love is not complete until it is accompanied by loving actions. Depending on a man’s background, exposure or associations, he can pick up habits that can negatively affect his marriage. I suggest that you evaluate your home environment: Does is provide the kind of atmosphere that is welcoming for him to come back to. What do the two of you spend time doing when he gets home? Notably, for some men staying at home is something of a chore. Somehow they come alive when they are with other people. Maybe you could ask whether you and the children can accompany him when he visits his folks. If he takes good care of you in all other areas and this is the only issue you are having trouble with, I would encourage you not to panic. With help, such men can learn, if well exposed. I would suggest that you seek out a good marriage course that both of you can attend. This will greatly improve the way you relate with, and treat, each other.Send your relationship questions to dn2@ke.nationmedia.com  