Q. I work for a PR firm in the city. When I began working here two years ago, I was full of passion, and even received kudos from colleagues and friends. My productivity was very high then. Lately though, I do not seem to attain that level of productivity, however much I try. I have even been ridiculed at work for what colleagues call lost enthusiasm. I still love my work and remain committed as ever. Please advise me.  You could also be a victim of your own success. Usually when an employee performs, there is tendency for more work to be allocated to them. This can be overwhelming and cause reduced productivity over time. Have an honest conversation on your workload with your supervisor to find out if there is a mechanism of delegating some of your responsibilities to your colleagues . From your description, it is also possible that your role is not dynamic hence you are bored due to performing the same role in the same pattern all the times. Have a discussion with your supervisor to give you different challenges to eliminate the monotony. Make it a habit to undergo an annual medical check-up. I am not a medical practitioner but I’m aware that ill health could cause decreased energy levels which can be attributed to declining productivity. Get professional check-up to rule out any health issues. What is happening in your personal life, are there issues that are affecting your concentration span and distract you from your goals or deliverables. All of us have personal issues, you just have to learn to separate and manage them in a way that they don’t interfere with your performance. If it a domestic issue get social support to enable you concentrate on your work. The relation with your supervisor and peers also influences your productivity to a great extent. Inculcate a good working relation with the people that you spend most of your time with. There is a provision for leave days. What surprises me is that I have encountered employees who think it is an achievement to work throughout the year without taking advantage of the leave benefit. The effect of this is that you have employees who are lethargic and whose productivity keeps on declining. When is the last time you took a break from the office? It may be possible that your declining productivity could be attributed to the fact that you are suffering “burn out”.  