Western Stima coach Henry Omino has challenged his players to step up their performance when they face Ulinzi Stars in a crunch SportPesa Premier League match this afternoon at Afraha Stadium, Nakuru. Stima, who finished sixth last season, have had a poor start to the season only winning one of their opening four games. Their stunning 2-1 win over Gor Mahia a month ago seemed to have kick-started their season’s campaign on a high note, but they have struggled with performances since then, losing to Posta Rangers and settling for a barren draw against Chemelil Sugar last weekend. STILL UNBEATEN They face an Ulinzi Stars side that is yet to taste defeat this season, and Omino has rallied his charges to “wake up and start winning matches”. “I think after we beat Gor Mahia, the players went into a celebration mode and forgot that we still have more than 30 league matches remaining. Consistency is key in any league and I want the players to wake up before it is too late,” the veteran coach said. “We got one point last weekend (against Chemelil) and that is a good place for us to start. It won’t be easy but I hope we shall get something out of the Ulinzi match.” Raymond Murugi and former Gor Mahia ace Hubert Kopany are all fit to start for Stima, and they will be relied on to deliver the goals which have been hard to come by for Kisumu-based side this season. CLOSED THE GAP Former Stima winger Baron Oketch, now on loan to Ulinzi from Gor Mahia, is likely to lead the soldiers’ attack against a back line of Wycliffe Nyangechi, Wesley Onguso, Jackson Saleh and Maurice Ojwang. Captain James Saruni and midfielder Samuel Onyango were awarded club player of the month awards in February and March respectively, and they are both set to part of Benjamin Nyangweso's starting 11. “I am not focusing on the unbeaten record. I want the boys to play their best and get the three points. There are no underdogs in this match. Stima are an experienced side and I expect that they will be very defensive. That means we will have to put in extra effort to win,” Nyangweso said. At the weekend, 2009 league champions Sofapaka fired warning shots at their title rivals with a commanding 3-0 win over winless Zoo Kericho in Kericho to move into fourth on the standings. Bandari and Posta Rangers also overcame their weekend opponents and are now keeping pace with league leaders Gor Mahia. Posta beat Mathare United 1-0 on Monday to move a point behind Gor Mahia, while Bandari thrashed 10-man Thika United on Sunday to move into third place. Debutantes Kariobangi Sharks floored fellow newcomers Nakumatt 1-0 in Machakos on Monday to record their second win of the season. RESULTS Saturday Sony Sugar 1-2 Gor Mahia Tusker 1-1 Ulinzi Stars Sunday Bandari 3-0 Thika United Leopards 1-0 Muhoroni Youth Kakamega Homeboyz 1-2 Nzoia United Western Stima 0 -0 Chemelil Sugar Zoo Kericho 0-3 Sofapaka Monday: Kariobangi Sharks 1-0 Nakumatt Mathare United 0-1 Posta Rangers   Kariobangi side notch second win of season.