The National Police Service has laid out rules to be followed by those taking part in political party primaries and campaigns ahead of the August General election. Politicians were warned against making “inflammatory” statements that may stoke violence. They were further told not to publish and distribute leaflets with hate messages threatening certain communities with eviction from their homes. “Those publishing and distributing leaflets threatening members of other communities with eviction are also similarly warned that they risk arrest and court action,” the statement read. TRAFFIC ACT Those taking part in processions that may interfere with normal traffic flow were also reminded to observe the Highway Code so that other road users are not inconvenienced. Police spokesman George Kinoti said these are some of violations of the law that have been noted in the past week when primaries started, and warned that officers have been instructed to arrest and take to court those found to be at fault. “We have lately noted that some aspirants and their supports have engaged in rowdy behaviour as well as making inflammatory utterances that could lead to breach of peace,” he said in a statement. Mr Kinoti added: “This will not be tolerated and officers are under instructions to deal firmly with anyone found breaching the law, regardless of their station in life or political affiliation.” VIOLENCE DURING PRIMARIESAs the party nominations enter the second week, police also revealed that areas where close contests are anticipated will be under heightened surveillance. So far, there has been chaos in Busia with the vehicle of deputy governor Kizito Wangalwa being damaged. Hence, ODM warned repeatedly that anyone found perpetrating violence will be disciplined in accordance to party rules. READ: Violence mars ODM primaries in Busia Police also want political parties to work with commanders at the counties so as to facilitate smooth polls. SECURE ENVIRONMENT Mr Kinoti said officers would work with the timelines given by the IEBC as well as political party schedules. “County, unit and formation commanders have drawn operational orders in their areas of jurisdiction. "Whereas the process has largely been successful, we are aware the remaining nomination exercises in some counties are likely to be closely contested owing to the high stakes involved,” Mr Kinoti added. Opposition party ODM primaries started last week and the ruling Jubilee Party's are scheduled to kick off tomorrow in parts of the country. The National Police Service has pledged a safe and secure environment for all Kenyans before, during and after the elections.  