I throw myself into my work with abandon, and only realise that it’s close to lunch time when I look up from my computer to take a breather from doing budgets and sending emails. I take a look at my cell phone, which has been on silent. There are no missed calls or messages. That’s funny. I was sure Gabriel would have communicated by now to make sure we’re all set for the evening. Anyway, since I have my phone in my hands, I decide to call Fatma and see how she’s been doing since yesterday. She doesn’t pick up. I call once more and when she doesn’t take my second call either, I decide to let it go and order some lunch instead. As I chow down on my hot pilau and spinach, I browse through some entertainment websites to make my lunch hour go faster. At precisely 2:15pm, I put down my take-out plastic dish and spoon and get back to work. FAILED DATE Once again, it is a busy afternoon and when I do look up, it’s 3:45pm. And once again, my phone is still missing any activity. I am staring morosely at it, wondering if I should call Gabriel and find out what’s going on, when there’s a knock at my door. I look up; it’s Chris. “Look, a few of the department heads and I are going out for drinks this evening and I think you should join us,” he says, peeking his head around the jamb of my door. “I’m sorry, I have plans,” I say. “Oh,” he answers. His brain furrows for a second and then, as if he has just remembered the vow he took to be nothing but professional with me, Chris slaps on a smile. “Well, if you change your mind we’ll be at the lounge in Westlands.” “Alright,” I nod, and then, as soon as he is walking back to his office, I decide to bite the bullet and call Gabriel. There’s no answer. I shoot him a quick text message: ‘Were we still meeting up today?’ I ask. Then I get back to tapping away at my computer. Two hours later, I hear a ping on my phone indicating that I have a message coming through.  I take a look at it. It’s a message from Gabriel. ‘Sorry, something’s come up. I have to postpone. Can I make it up to you?’ I roll my eyes so hard it’s almost painful; he’s cancelling a pre-planned date an hour before we are due to meet?! What kind of bad manners is that?! I pick up my phone and dial. “Jo,” I yell into the phone when she picks up, “I am so done with dating!” “What’s happened now?” she asks. I detail my failed date this evening. “I mean, what does this n***a take me for? Like, he doesn’t even have the decency to cancel in good time because he thinks I can’t possibly have a life or other plans that I could make? What, so I was just waiting around for him?” “Calm down Liz,” Jo placates. “When in the history of the use of the phrase ‘calm down’ has it ever been known to work?!” I tell her. PARTY MOOD “Ok, this is bad,” she whistles. “I thought when we talked you said you weren’t interested. Did you change your mind?” “No,” I shrug. “I just don’t like being blown off. And especially by someone I don’t like. My ego is hurt.” Jo chuckles. “So let me get this straight: you don’t want him but you want him to take you out, and if he takes you out you will be bored out of your mind but you get upset when he cancels and saves you the boredom?” “Exactly,” I say. I can almost hear Jo shaking her head on the other end of the phone. “I am so grateful I am a woman and I never have to date women. You people are confusing! So are you going to go home to cry into a bottle of wine?” “No,” I tell her. “Chris is hosting a few of us for drinks tonight so I think I’ll do just that.” “So you already had plans?! Gabriel didn’t leave you at a loose ends?! Why on earth are you upset?” she yelps. “Because my ego is hurt,” I riposte, then I bid her goodbye and hang up. A few minutes later I am on my way to meet with Chris and the rest. I am determined to not let my party mood go to waste – and by Jove, I will make sure I have fun, flaky Gabriel nothwithstanding.  