LUXURY LIMOUSINES ALMOST always look as good as new, even after many years. Their bodies gleam and their engines purr. They run straight, smooth and  true, seemingly at all times and for ever. Ordinary family cars may be less opulent but they are equally pristine…. when they are brand new. However, they get visibly and functionally older much sooner. Why? What are the ingredients of perpetual perfection, and which is most important – is it the original engineering and build quality, or exceptional levels of service care, or driving only with stately grace from one feather-pillow to another? Clearly, all three ingredients – quality, care and usage – are key determinants of looks and longevity for any vehicle, and limousines score top marks on all of them. Their market is not price sensitive, so their design budgets enable every detail to be better-made using better materials. Their owners don’t blink at eye-watering maintenance costs (Sh100,000 for a service is routine) at workshops. More than a few owners have chauffeurs, who spend more time cleaning and polishing than driving. No wonder they stay perfect. USE DON'T ABUSE Even much less prestigious brands would be in remarkably good condition after 10 or 20 years or more if they were treated like that! And even a Rolls Royce might look a bit shabby in half the time if it had a family car task-list and service standard. The leather seats, glossy paint and sumptuous suspension would meet chocolate-chomping children, pet dogs, leaking shopping baskets, sun-blasted car parks, game drives, pot-holed lanes, farm tracks, corner garages, cash-flow crunches, fudged-fixes and bandit parts. But not many vacuum cleaners, shampoos or polishing cloths. The realities of ordinary motorists’ wallets and multi-tasking lifestyles mean perfection must be compromised. So it would be useful to know which of the three fundamental ingredients – quality, care or usage – has the most telling effect. There is perhaps no absolute answer, but the search for one does produce a useful principle: the service your car will give to you (over time) will be exactly equal to the service you give to it (all the time). Any vehicle, irrespective of its original quality, will quickly cough and splutter to undignified decrepitude if it is abused and neglected. Quality does mean better, but it does not mean bullet-proof. Any vehicle that is driven with skill and used with mechanical sympathy, and which is serviced with diligence and competence, can look good, run well and last long – even if heavily used in severe conditions, even if it does not wear a billionaire’s badge. So aim for the best quality you can, but don’t despair if the benchmark is low. And by all means put the vehicle to the full usage your life demands. But remember the phrase is “Use it”,  not “Abuse it”. Draw a line between what it “could” do (in an emergency) and what it “should” do (as a routine). Above all, try to get the car into the best mechanical condition your budget allows as soon as it becomes a member of your family and then keep it that way. Service it. Regularly. Thoroughly. Competently.  If you cut corners on that, stand by for what is known (for good reason)  as “a carload of trouble”. The only variable to that rule is not if, but when.  