Aspirants seeking the Jubilee Party ticket to vie for various seats in Nakuru County have been campaigning along Nakuru streets, accompanied by hundreds of their supporters in a last minute appeal for votes. The aspirants’ parades lasted for the better part of the day Wednesday, leaving the town in a euphoric mood on the last day of campaigns ahead of the party nominations. One after another, the aspirants, escorted by their jubilant supporters rode in vehicles crisscrossing the town’s streets, the climax being Kenyatta Avenue. A high turn-out is expected in the various polling stations as Nakuru is considered a Jubilee stronghold. At least 681 candidates eyeing various seats will be taking part in the primaries. “We have three aspirants seeking the gubernatorial seat, nine the woman representative’s seat, eight the senatorial and the rest are eyeing parliamentary and ward seats,” said Jubilee Nakuru Branch Secretary Kiplangat Cheruiyot. The party official said all arrangements have been made for a smooth exercise on Friday. However, he noted that no aspirant will be allowed to campaign after Wednesday. AGENTS “The party has also set rules that every aspirants will only have one agent so that we don’t bring about confusion during the exercise,” he said. Mr Cheruiyot said that all polling clerks, agents, presiding officers and returning officers have been trained and are ready to handle the party primaries in their respective areas. He said security will only be provided by regular police which they believe will ensure free and fair nominations. All polling stations are expected to open from 6am and close at 5pm with all agents expected to be at respective polling stations by 5am in order to verify all voting materials. While reminding all aspirants to adhere to party rules and procedures, the official said aspirants who engage in any acts of violence will be disqualified. At the same time, Mr Cheruiyot urged employers to allow their workers to participate in the exercise. RIGHT TO VOTE He appealed to business owners to release their workers on Friday in order to exercise the crucial democratic right. According to Mr Cheruiyot, the workers should be given a chance to determine the leadership of the county. “I am requesting the industry heads, hoteliers and business owners to give their workers a day off on April 21 in order to allow them to nominate their preferred leaders,” said Mr Cheruiyot. The official said the party is determined to ensure free fare and transparent nominations. The party will be using the IEBC register during the nominations. He exuded confidence in the mechanisms put in place, saying the nominations will be peaceful as tight security will be provided to guard ballot materials and election officials. According to the secretary general, the party has trained over 5,000 officials to manage the nominations and will from Thursday send observers and other interested parties to the ground. The official revealed that the party will be dispatching three trained polling clerks under one presiding officer in every polling station. In addition to the clerks, there will be sub-county party officials who will be overseeing the nomination process.  