Starting out for you was not rosy; your family was not financially strong, what lessons did you get from this about life? I watched women struggle in the village where I grew up. They worked like donkeys. They also endured beatings and ridicule from men, yet they could not do anything about it. They had no voice. They had no capacity to resist. I knew then that I had to run away from that life. Youth is a phase where most are very impressionable and want to fit in among their peers, how were you able to survive this pressure without money and the challenge of raising a small child? Managing school and a baby at the same time was emotionally and physically draining. I did not have time to take off my eyes from the goal post - completing my studies and getting a job to feed my child and support my mother. Thankfully, I had support and encouragement from my sisters Doris Chris, and late Eva. Your family’s support equals success. You had a baby right after high school, yet this did not derail you. What made you so brave and how did having a child early alter your life? The desire to succeed for my baby and become independent, refusal to accept defeat, knowing that I am the Lord’s, and beautifully made and poised for success in His Promise. It’s all in the attitude. What, in your opinion, should young people do to improve their financial management abilities as they get into adulthood? Young people should learn to save. Saving enhances innovation. They also need to identify a mentor whom they can emulate. Self-respect, respect for others and rule of law is also important. Young people should think of the future and not just the pleasure of living today. Adopting ethical behaviour will enable them keep focused while fear of God and respect for their parents will attract blessings. Why did the financial empowerment of women interest you from the beginning? From what I had observed while growing up, I knew that if women had access to money, they could buy their freedom from abuse, poverty and pursue their purpose in life. You seem to have oscillated around a couple of careers especially at the beginning. What is your advice to a young person who is just starting out and is keen to begin right? I lectured at the university and supervised under graduate and graduate students for 10 years. I then moved to the UN (United Nations) for three years. I then took over the leadership and growth of Kenya Women Microfinance Bank, where I have worked for 27 years. A young person should have a purpose. One should understand from the onset what they want to be remembered for when they die. They need to search their souls and discover their purpose here on earth. For a young person trying to get into a career in banking or insurance, what are some of the things that they can do to make themselves more marketable in the job market? Once one is academically qualified in a certain area, one then needs to have a passion for that career. That should be enhanced with integrity and excellent interpersonal skills. There also needs to be continuous learning on changes in the banking and insurance sector. One must be always alert. Do you think that the society has created enough room for young women who have opted to go into self-employment in terms of providing structures that actually work, such as access to loans? Women are still excluded. Exclusion is the basis for disempowerment. Enough resources are never identified to support initiatives that target young women. However, I encourage young women to think big. What would you list as the gravest mistake you made in your youth? Did it resolve itself or how did you deal with it? I disappointed my parents by becoming a teenage mother. My parents being leaders in the church, and having brought me up in strict Christian discipline were extremely displeased. Later, they loved me and my baby back. I had to be a mother and a student all alone. I made it because of my resolve to move on and God’s design for my life. One family member was especially very supportive, encouraging me to never give up. If a magic wand made you 25 again and you had a chance to change one thing about yourself then, what would that be? If I was 25 again, I would plan to head Kenya, deal firmly with corruption and enhance the positioning of women in the democratic processes. Do you have any regrets? I thank God for my life. I thank him for my children and grandchildren. I only wish that my first daughter who passed away would be alive today to see her model/designer daughter shinning. I also wish that my late sister were alive to see what with God’s help, I have done with KWFT.  