Revelations about ruthless cartels controlling the public transport system are horrifying. Evidence indicates that operators lose Sh47 billion annually to the cartels that comprise illegal gangs, traffic police, county askaris, and bus stage touts. This is a perfect illustration of State capture and is unacceptable. The implications are grave. Investors are ripped off and hardly reap any dividends. Therefore, they resort to overcharging and transferring the burden to the commuters. In other words, the public pays dearly because of the greed of fellows who make no investment. At another level, the collusion between the gangs, the police, and county officials means that the crews have the leeway to violate traffic rules with impunity. It is for this reason that public vehicles top the list of those involved in accidents. In Nairobi and other major towns, the bus terminuses are perennially clogged. Chaos reigns as the gangs purportedly manning the stations thrive in disorder. Passengers are harassed and tormented and have no recourse because the security teams are compromised. Sadly, this revelation by the Kenya Bus Group managing director, Mr Edwins Mukabanah, is not new. Information about the cartels is common knowledge. When John Michuki was the Transport minister, he had the courage and tenacity to deal with the cartels as he set out to clear the mess in public transport. For a short time in 2003/2004, he restored order, scattered the cartels, and made traffic officers accountable. However, the reforms were short-lived. Kenyans have since resorted to moaning and lamenting without any action being taken to improve the situation. Police officers are involved in the mess and cannot act. Lobby groups such as the Matatu Owners Association only lament instead of putting pressure on the authorities to eliminate the cartels. Transport Minister James Macharia, police chief Joseph Boinnet, and City Governor Evans Kidero and his colleagues in other counties must take responsibility for the mess and act on it.  