We have been blowing air into our balloon and it became big and impressive. How smoothly it glided in the sky! Then the first tear appeared, a minute hole that started the air whistling out. That year, 2016, the government acknowledged that our hot-air balloon in the form of national examinations leaked like a sieve. The Kenya National Examinations Council was re-constituted to address the challenges that bedevilled the system. The new initiative, under the stewardship of the Education Cabinet secretary, Dr Fred Matiang’i, and the chairman of the council, Prof George Magoha, attacked the status quo and the value system supporting it. It mapped out a route to cheating-free exams by sealing loopholes. The result? Our leak-free balloon is once again floating in Kenya’s sky. A question arises, however: how long will the balloon remain leak-proof? How do we sustain this momentum? Schools are a microcosm of our society. Hence, students’ work merely mirrors the state of the broader society. Students are exposed to unethical behaviour both in school and outside. REVAMP VALUESThe internal factors include prioritising academic excellency at the expense of learners’ social development, parental disengagement in their children’s schooling, and exam-oriented pressure. Two external factors can be blamed for the explosion of our hot-air balloon: normalisation of shortcuts as a means of realising one’s goals and high levels of inequality, social exclusion, and marginalisation. If we want to keep our balloon in the air, we need to re-evaluate our values as a people. We need to embrace the traditional ethos of hard work as the way to accomplish results that last. Therefore, countering exam malpractices should not be the sole responsibility of the Kenya National Examinations Council and the Ministry of Education. This is a societal challenge and we all have a role to play. In these times of a fractured social fabric, schools need to fulfil their surrogacy roles of parenting. Thus, learning institutions need to foster a sense of ownership, commitment, and responsibility. MODELING They need to adapt a whole-school approach where everyone in the system is on board. Such an approach would strengthen the institutions’ ability to counteract internal and external factors that lead to students’ compromised work. Further, engaging with who the learner is, rather than what she/he does, will offer schools not only the opportunity to become sound learning environments, but also, and even more important, offer students practical opportunities to become better humans. In accepting the two-fold role of teaching and nurturing responsible citizens therefore, educators must recognise the multiplicity of the communities that co-exist in a school set-up. This means that schools must know their learners, encourage continuous student-teacher dialogue, and, consistently model expected behaviour. Parental engagement is essential and must begin at an early age. Behavioural modelling of our children should not stop with parents, though. Socialisation through role-modelling can propagate expected behaviour. If the adults whom the youngsters are expected to admire and imitate use shortcuts, the learners accept this as the normal way of doing things. Exams activate competition and the notion of winners and losers. CHANGE TACTIC It brings up unpleasant feelings such as being pushy and arrogant around winning and sneakily resentful around failure. This can make students want to get good grades at all costs. Adopting ethical behaviour can have a beneficial effect on all. Attitudes that are attuned to instant gratification should be reframed. Dear students, if at any stage of your academic journey you obtain undesired results, rather than becoming hopeless, pause and get back to the drawing board. As you design new plans, you might hear the words “it will not work”. Do not believe them. Instead, reach for the heavens with no apologies. For the highest reward for a man’s toil is not what he gets for it, but what he becomes by it. To Dr Matiang’i and his team: your sterling performance in the 2016 examinations should be an epitaph to mediocrity and a prologue to excellence. It should be your benchmark for 2017. Let it become the springboard to a fresh phase of academic life in Kenya. Do not be deterred. Hold your vision in mind. Stay steady and keep our balloon in the sky. Prof Kibicho is the author of Sex Tourism in Africa and Traditional Martial Arts. kibichowanjohi@yahoo.co.uk. KibichoWanjohi@com  