TEHRAN, Tuesday Hundreds of thousands of mourners attended the funeral today of Iran’s ex-president Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, whose death leaves a hole for the country’s moderates. It took more than two hours for the cortège to make its way through the crowds to the south Tehran mausoleum where Rafsanjani was laid to rest. Pallbearers accidentally knocked the former president’s trademark white turban off the coffin as they carried it into the burial chamber at the mausoleum of Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, leader of Iran’s 1979 Islamic revolution. Rafsanjani, who served as president from 1989 to 1997, was a father figure for Iran’s moderate and reformist camps. His death is a blow for President Hassan Rouhani, whose 2013 election was largely due to Rafsanjani’s support. Mr Rouhani, who spearheaded the thaw with the West that culminated in a 2015 nuclear deal, faces a tough re-election battle in May amid disappointment over the smaller than anticipated economic dividends of the lifting of international sanctions. Supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei led the eulogies to Rafsanjani at Tehran University despite their “differences”. Mr Rafsanjani fell out of the regime’s highest inner circle following the 2009 re-election of hardliner Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, when he spoke out against the use of lethal force on protesters who claimed the vote was rigged. CONSERVATIVE RIVALS Mr Rouhani attended the funeral but so too did his conservative rivals, parliament speaker Ali Larijani, and his brother, judiciary chief Ayatollah Sadegh Larijani. One of Iran’s most controversial figures in the West, the head of the elite Revolutionary Guards’ foreign operations division, Major General Qassem Suleimani, also attended. Tehran prayer leader Ayatollah Mohammad Emami Kashani passed out and had to be treated at the scene by Health Minister Hassan Ghazizadeh Hashemi, an ophthalmologist by training, Iranian media reported. Reformist former president Mohammad Khatami, an ally of Rafsanjani but long out of favour with the regime, was not part of the official delegation. Some Twitter users said he had been prevented from attending. State television coverage of the funeral procession captured a few seconds of chants of “Hail Hashemi (Rafsanjani), hail Khatami,” before the broadcaster drowned it out with solemn music. Video clips published on social media showed pockets of mourners in the streets chanting slogans in support of both Khatami and fellow reformist Mir Hossein Mousavi. Mr Mousavi and Mehdi Karoubi, two of the losing candidates in the 2009 election, have been under house arrest since 2011 for leading the so-called Green Movement protests that the regime calls “sedition”. Mr Khatami is under a strict media ban and is often prevented from attending public events.  