Senators are upbeat they will grant Kenyans an option that will cool political temperatures and guarantee a free and fair election. This comes as the legal affairs committee, chaired by Mr Amos Wako (Busia) embarks on the final phase of collecting views over contentious election laws. The Senate will hold a special session on Thursday and Kenyans will know if changes introduced by MPs in the Election Law (Amendment) Bill would be upheld. Going by sessions so far held, Jubilee and Cord senators are still holding to hardline positions over the Bill, which saw the opposition threaten mass action if it became law. If endorsed by the Senate, the Bill would head to the President for assent. It provides for use of a manual backup in the identification of voters and transmission of election results in the event the electronic system fails. Deputy Speaker Kembi Gitura and Mr Kiraitu Murungi (Meru) said what Kenyans required was accurate information to enhance public confidence in the electoral system. RIGGING AND VIOLENCE They said it was wrong for the opposition “to whip up emotions” by creating an impression that a manual backup would result in rigging and violence. “It is important to create trust among Kenyans by assuring them there is nothing sinister about a backup system,” Mr Gitura said. In his New Year’s message to Kenyans, President Kenyatta said he would not allow anyone to drive the country into violence. “We will fight such efforts with every legal and political tool at our disposal.  We have not worked this hard to be diverted to a violent destination by individuals who have little to offer,” he said. But senators Hassan Omar (Mombasa) and Mutula Kilonzo Jr (Makueni) have questioned the rationale behind the push to have a manual backup instead of putting in place watertight measures to lock out ineligible voters. Mr Kilonzo expressed fears of a repeat of 2013 polls when the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission resorted to a manual system after computers failed. “The equipment were not as per the required specifications. They were bound to fail. We must put party interests aside and support a system that will deliver credible elections,” Mr Mutula said. IDENTIFY BOGUS VOTERS Mr Omar challenged the IEBC to emulate Ghana and Nigeria where measures were put in place to identify bogus voters. The matter might be referred to a mediation committee that includes lawmakers from both houses, to strike a compromise, should the Senate decide that the amendments were not as a result of consultations. Mr Murungi who co-chaired the joint select committee that came up with the Bill dismissed calls of referring the matter to them. “It is before Parliament because the bipartisan committee no longer exists after it completed its mandate,” Mr Murungi said, a view shared by National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi. Senators Kilonzo, Mr Omar and Judith Sijeny (Nominated) said an election was a an emotive issue that should not be subjected to political machinations. “There is need to instil public confidence in the process to avert a situation where losers feel they were short-changed,” Mr Omar said. Ms Sijeny said seeking the views of the public on a national issue was a constitutional right that should never be ignored.   The lawmakers said the manual system must be used in extremely rare situations.