President Uhuru Kenyatta on Tuesday met clan elders from various communities living in Mandera County. The President met the elders at State House, Nairobi, where they discussed development in the county and agreed to involve all the stakeholders in improving the socio-economic welfare of the region. Responding to the elders' request on a stalled airport project in the county, President Kenyatta directed that the issue be looked into and be revived. President Kenyatta said he would soon meet all leaders from the county to discuss development projects that will benefit residents. The elders commended the Government for improving security in Mandera County and North Eastern region as a whole and pledged to continue working together to ensure peace and security prevails at all time. President Uhuru Kenyatta is also expected to visit Meru County on Saturday. The visit comes amid complaints by some Jubilee Party MPs over what they term as bungled elections of interim leaders in the county. The visit is also aims at reversing any gains made by Party of National Unity (PNU) led by Meru Governor Peter Munya, who has been popularizing it in the region to eat into Jubilee Party support. The Head of State visit is expected to pacify the recent revolt by a group of disgruntled MPs and aspirants as well as heightened campaigns by other politicians to popularize PNr On Tuesday, Meru Senator Kiraitu Murungi and Igembe South MP Mithika Linturi confirmed the president will be in the region on Saturday and asked Jubilee supporters to step up campaigns to prepare the ground for the visit. They said a massive recruitment drive targeting voters would be launched on the same day during the rally at Kaaga Primary School grounds. They spoke on the sidelines of the burial of former powerful managing director of the Kenya Planters’ Co-operative Union (KPCU) Henry Kinyua at Kinoru Estate in Meru. “We ask all Jubilee supporters to turn up in their large numbers. We would like to assure our party leader that Meru is a Jubilee zone contrary to what other others maybe saying. Meru will be second to Nairobi after the major launch,” Mr Linturi said. Mr Murungi said it was an honour for the Meru people for the president to choose to visit Meru after launching the party in Nairobi. “We expect people from all corners of Meru. Those who have not registered as voters should also turn up. Those wishing to be members of the ruling party will be registered with an ID and a voter’s card.The president will launch that exercise,” Senator Murungi said.  