Nyamira County Governor John Nyagarama has moved four county executive committee members in a reshuffle published in a gazette notice. The governor replaced finance executive Jones Omwenga with Kepha Osoro of transport, roads and public works in a major reshuffle that caught many of his cabinet members by surprise. The finance executive was reportedly moved following claims of a strained relationship with the county assembly. Mr Nyagarama picked Mr Osoro, a seasoned engineer, to steer county finances during this year of elections. Mr Osoro was at the center of major road upgrading exercise that took place in Nyamira County in the past year. Last week, the assembly rejected the governor’s budget proposal, putting Mr Omwenga in a difficult position. Most of the executive members learnt that they had been moved nearly a week after the gazette notice was published on December 29 last year. The governor also broke the tradition of announcing the changes in a press conference, which is usually attended by ministers and their chief officers. The Nation could not reach either the governor or county secretary Eric Aori for comments about the changes. In the reshuffle, Mr Osoro was replaced by John Omanwa of trade and tourism. Mr Omwenga was moved to education and ICT, which was formerly held by Janet Komenda. Dr Komenda will now head the lands, housing and urban development docket, formally held by Richard Mareri, who has been moved to trade and tourism. However, Reuben Kimanga (environment and natural resources), Peter Ogwara (gender and social services), Peres Mong’are (agriculture and fisheries) and Andrew Ombati (public administration) were not affected by the changes. Chief officers affected in the reshuffle include Edward Ondigi, who moves from agriculture to finance. Jackline Momanyi was moved from finance to trade. Thomas Geni moves from trade and cooperatives to lands and housing. Richard Okeyo is now the chief officer for gender and social services while Daniel Omwansa moves to agriculture, formerly held by Mr Ondigi.  