The Aga Khan Health Services-Kenya and Agence Française de Développement (AFD) on Friday signed a Sh1.25 billion expansion and upgrading agreement for Kisumu and Mombasa Aga Khan hospitals. At a colourful signing ceremony attended by Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho at the Aga Khan Hospital in Mombasa, the hospital’s Chief Executive Noorali Mimon said the agreement includes developing a cardiology programme and a day-care chemotherapy centre. Mr Momin said the expansion programme would strengthen existing services, expand diagnostics and upgrade the quality of services and facility to international standards. “These programmes will fit seamlessly within the Aga Khan Development Network continuum of care approach with links to Aga Khan Hospital-Nairobi. "Additionally, AKDN will expand its footprint by establishing additional 10 Outreach Health Centres to the current three centres,” he said. Moyez Alibhai, the chairman of the Aga Khan Health Services-Kenya described the move as a milestone towards providing better healthcare for Kenyans. “This is a major milestone. We also want to thank our French partners. From this partnership, thousands of people have [benefited] and will benefit from modern healthcare,” said Mr Alibhai. He said the Aga Khan hospitals in Kenya, Tanzania and more than 30 countries worldwide had received global awards for providing modern, unique healthcare services. Under the agreement, Kisumu Aga Khan Hospital will over the next five years expand to a 90-bed facility from the current 61 beds, implement elements in cardiology and cancer programmes, expand and establish an additional 10 Outreach Health Centres. The French Ambassador to Kenya Antoine Sivan hailed the partnership and promised that his government would continue to partner with The Aga Khan Health Services. Governor Joho, who was the chief guest at the ceremony, praised the Aga Khan Hospital in Mombasa saying it had cooperated with the county during accidents such as one that took place at Mazeras last December. “Doctors were already on strike, but the Aga Khan Hospital stepped in to treat our people who were involved in the Mazeras accident,” he said. He said the development of modern equipment would save residents the trouble of travelling abroad for treatment.  