It is now widely acknowledged that the ongoing drought will have serious negative effects on this country and the region as a whole for much of this year. It is gulping large amounts of physical and monetary resources in ever-increasing quantities and is resulting in massive suffering. Domestic budgets will be literally drained and national and regional administrative capacity will be overwhelmed and in a number of cases unable to cope. It will test and shake the very fabric of the country, especially in this election year socially, politically and economically. To have an election in a year of drought, complete with rising food prices and shortfalls, is a challenging task akin to walking on a tightrope. It will heighten already rising tensions. It is already resulting in conflict over ever depleting resources such as grazing land and water. It is also highlighting the environmental degradation the country has been subjected to: se-afforestation and misuse of valuable resources such as our rivers and water catchment areas to name but two. In some aspects of financial management, this government has followed a prudent course. There is relative monetary and fiscal stability and even with upward food prices overall inflation should not rise alarmingly. SGR VALUEThe day to day management and steering of financial affairs has on some fronts been relatively sound. For example, money supply is contained under the beady stewardship of Central Bank Governor Patrick Njoroge. Government spending is on a tight rein to the extent that it is frequently accused of disbursing too little and often too late. There is a strong argument that a number of areas are underfunded and many public officers are underpaid and that a disproportionate amount is drained by bureaucracy. But where there are some glaring and disturbing questions is on some of the mega projects this government is undertaking or has committed itself to. There is the issue of the rising the rising debt burden. Another concern is the poor value for the vast sums of money committed. In these cases the government’s financial management and judgment is wanting and in some cases plain wrong. This is especially so when a country faces such demands, which inevitably weigh heavily on its financial capacity to cope and manage. Two that hit the bull’s eye of the target on are the Standard Gauge Railway from Mombasa to Naivasha and the coal-fired power plant in Lamu. It is worth reminding ourselves that these are not government commitments per se. They are massive financial commitments made by the government on the behalf of the people and taxpayers and they are ones they are going to have to pay for long after this government has gone. The burning issue regarding the SGR is not the need for it, but the massive price. The SGR undoubtedly promises to be a major infrastructural asset but at a very high cost. One current estimate is that Kenya is paying Sh134 billion for a project that should have cost around sh43 billion - that is three times the value! TAKE STOCK A comparison with the railway built in Ethiopia underlines the point about how costly Kenya’s SGR is. Just think if the government had just a portion of that money to add to its food aid and famine relief fund. The SGR project has increased our debt servicing obligations considerably. The proposed Sh200 billion Lamu coal-driven power plant makes even more distressing reading. It is costly and based on a gross overestimate of demand. There are several other worrying issues about it. Much of the world is reducing its dependence on coal for environmental reasons. Here we are proposing to put up a massive coal generated plant adjacent to one of our prime tourism gems. Another is that its coal will be imported from South Africa hence a triple irony: producing power from an imported environmentally unsound raw material for a grid that does not need it. Since this power will have to be transmitted over large distances to the consumer centres the overall cost will be higher than most of our current mix of energy sources. All in all it is very timely to take stock of all projects, and especially the ones highlighted above, when we have such herculean humanitarian based demands on us as a result of drought. Mr Shaw is a public policy and economic analyst:robshaw298@gmail.com  