As one traverses Gicheera village in Embu county, they are greeted by hundreds of acres of lush green maize plantations. But looks are deceiving. Most of the farmers are downhearted, worried over poor harvest as most of the crops will not mature fully. This is one of the region’s grain basket but thousands of farmers are staring at famine, having suffered the effects of sparse rains and failure to observe best farming practices. “It is green all round but go inside and look at the maize stalks. They are weak, seemingly telling the farmers to cut them down and feed the animals. “The farmers have invested a lot of money and time and are demoralized as we head to the next planting season,” says Ms Anastasia Mbatia, a seed distribution specialist working with Agri-experience. But in the same village, a two-acre farm stands out like an oasis in the desert, the envy of many people and a source of solace. The farm is owned by Mr Livingstone Njeru, a quarry worker who has embraced mixed farming for the past 10 years. The farm is showing signs of a good harvest. The maize, sorghum, sunflower, beans and cow peas are all flourishing, attracting hundreds of farmers from far and wide. Mr Njeru has donated a portion of the land as a demonstration plot where various seed companies showcase their products and teach farmers the best practices. EARLY WARNINGS Mr Njeru, 54, together with his wife Catherine Wanja, strictly follow early warnings by the meteorological department and consult the local agriculture department office. Even with minimal rainfall, he is assured of harvesting at least six bags of sorghum in a half-acre piece of land and about 20 bags of maize in the remaining one-and-a-half-acre plot. “I have been practising mixed farming for over 10 years now. When one crop fails, another thrives,” he told the Nation during a field trip on Thursday. It is here that the new Sungura 301 maize variety has been planted ahead of release to the market. With a capacity to produce between 25-30 bags per acre, the variety, which was developed in Zimbabwe, thrives in semi-arid areas alongside cassava and sorghum. It also does well in coffee zones. According to Mr Sam Kim, a sales agronomist with Seedco, the maize variety will be sold from next season. It matures within two-and-a-half months, ensuring the crop takes maximum advantage of minimal rainfall. The demonstration plot advises farmers on the proper seeds for a particular agro-ecological zone. In sharp contrast, Mr Njeru’s immediate neighbour, Ms Nancy Kina, is pondering her next move after all her maize stunted at the milk stage. “I usually buy certified seeds but this time round I used the ones I had harvested last season. None has done well,” she reflects.   Former local chief James Ireri says the residents are at a crossroads – too abashed to seek relief food since they have always had plenty. “We feed Embu county, but now we are facing famine since the crop has failed. The maximum farmers will harvest is two bags of maize per acre,” he says. Kagaari South crops officer Njeru Mwita adds that most farmers planted seeds that required prolonged rainfall. “The short rains would have been enough for the new maize but it was not well distributed. The rains stopped at maize cob formation stage. Timely planting, use of certified seeds and diversification would have helped,” notes Mr Mwita. Ms Mbatia warns that the effects of global warming are manifest, and stresses on a need to plant seeds that will withstand various climatic conditions. “We are advising farmers to plant climate-smart crops. These will germinate as long as there is nutrition in the soil. The crops also skip some development stages if there is reduced rainfall, while the seeds have inner systems to tolerate drought,” she says. Ms Mbatia also puts in a word for MbeguChoice, an app that allows farmers and local seed sellers to access a list of suitable seeds for specific weather conditions and soils. The app was developed jointly by the Kenya Agricultural and Livestock Research Organisation (Kalro), the Kenya Plant Health Inspectorate Service (Kephis), seed companies and Agri Experience, with the support of Kenya Markets Trust.  