Politicians in Nyanza are headed for a clash with the local administration over claims that the government officials are sabotaging the ongoing voter registration in the region. This comes amid a warning by Nyanza regional coordinator Wilson Njega and county commissioners in the region that they would take action against anybody, including politicians, using ‘unorthodox’ means to have people registered. But ODM national chairman John Mbadi, Homa Bay Town MP Peter Kaluma and Homa Bay woman representative Gladys Wanga put the administrators on notice and asked them to list the abolished means of mobilisation as well as provide names of complainants in the process. They also questioned why such directives were not being issued in Jubilee strongholds. Mr Mbadi accused the commissioners of working to achieve the interests of the Jubilee government by ensuring only a handful of residents registered as voters. Homa Bay County commissioner Kassim Farah had issued a warning to politicians to desist from using youth to force people to register. “We are aware that Mr Farah is working for his bosses who want continued voter apathy in the region. We will not succumb to his threats,” said Mr Mbadi. Mr Njega, who is in charge of counties in the region warned that security agencies will not tolerate forcible voter registration. So far, arrests of youth mobilising people to register have been made in Kisumu and Migori counties. “We will not allow youth to force people to register. We will take action against anybody who dares to break the law,” Mr Njega said. ILLEGAL MEANS On Sunday, Cord leader Raila Odinga warned that they would take action against any member of the defunct provincial administration indulging in the ongoing listing of voters with ill-intentions. “We will take action against any chief derailing the process of ID issuance to our people because we have witnessed long queues at the centres for ID registration as opposed to voter registration centres,” Mr Odinga told journalists in Nyakach. Mr Kaluma accused the local administrators of “doing the bidding of the President” in the ongoing exercise. “The directive by the President that the provincial administration officials should assist in registration of voters is being implemented in Central Kenya and parts of the Rift Valley deemed to support Jubilee. "In Nyanza and areas believed to support the Opposition, they have been directed to sabotage the registration process,” Mr Kaluma said. Siaya County commissioner Josephine Onunga said no incidents of forcible registration had been reported in the area. In Migori, county commissioner Seif Matata warned youth against barring people without voters’ cards from accessing markets.  