With advances in technology, one can work at almost any location. So whether you occasionally come home with work from the office to finish during the weekend, run a parallel office at home or operate a business from home, it is a good idea to have a part of the house that can serve as an office. In many cases, the home office also acts as the quiet area where one can relax while reading a book, or the children can study and do their homework. A home office offices does not have to  be as fancy as an official office since a room in the house can be transformed into one simply by incorporating an office desk, chair and some equipment. For those planning to build their homes this year, it would be a good idea to incorporate a home office at the design stage. If you are living in a house that does not have a designated space for the home office, you will need to get a table, a chair and other office equipment and convert  one room, or whatever space is available, into your home office. Location However, a home office requires careful planning as setting it up in the wrong place might result in too many distractions and low productivity. Below are some factors to consider when setting up a home office. The location of the home office is the most crucial aspect in determining whether the space is conducive to maximum productivity. Locate your office where you will be inspired to work. Some people prefer to have their office in a room that is in a quiet part of the house while others prefer one where there are subtle sounds. For those with schoolgoing children who use the same space  to study and do their homework, it is advisable to locate the office where there are no distractions. If you choose a room in a high-traffic area where the other household members  pass frequently, their back-and-forth movements can be a major distraction from your work. The location should also have adequate lighting as well as electric outlets for the office equipment. Furniture Invest in an office table and chair that are suitable for  the purpose. Get a table with lockable drawers in which you can keep your paperwork in an orderly manner after work to avoid it getting  mixed up with that of others using the same work station. The cabinets will also help you organise items such as staplers and their pins, paper punches, pins, stick-ons, pens and notebooks, files and other requirements in order, and also safe from young children who might enter the room. Also invest in a comfortable chair. For those sharing the space with children, invest in a chair that is also comfortable for them when studying and doing their homework. Atmosphere If the room is in an area that gets dark, you might consider investing in a light-coloured paint to brighten it, or invest in light window dressings that will allow in more light and make it  brighter. Set regular work hours A home office comes with many more distractions since  your children, spouse, friends and even neigbours can keep interrupting you if you do not set work hours. Setting regular work hours and establishing a routine will make it easier for everyone in the household to adjust to your working from home. You can also keep the door to your home office closed so that everyone knows you do not want to be distracted, or hang a “Do not disturb” sign. Clean and organised work station Ensure that your table is well organised at the end of every work session and that paperwork that is no longer necessary is shredded and disposed of to prevent pile-up that might attract pests such as cockroaches, which  can invade the rest of the house. Invest in a shelf on which you can arrange your documents if they cannot fit in the drawers of your work table. Incorporate some décor You can incorporate a house plant, artwork or even frame a sentimental painting by your child to not only energise the home office, but also keep you refreshed every day as you work. Remember to give yourself a break once in a while as sitting at a work station for long can not only interfere with your productivity, but is also unhealthy. Avoid the temptation to watch TV, do the dishes or engage in other household work during your break as this will distract you from your work schedule. However, you can take a brief walk outside for a breath of fresh air and some  inspiration.  