Former Anglican Church of Kenya Archbishop Eliud Wabukala is closer to becoming the next anti-graft watchdog chairman amidst heavy expectations among Kenyans. The Justice and Legal Affairs Committee (JLAC) approved his name and will table the report on Tuesday during a special sitting called to debate his appointment. He was nominated by President Uhuru Kenyatta. Ol Jororok MP Muriithi Waiganjo said the outstanding quality of the former prelate was integrity, which put him in a good stead to “slay the dragon of corruption” which has eluded a number of his predecessors. “The committee’s work was to ensure no complaint by a Kenyan went unheard and, even though there was a petition against him, it was found to be weak. The integrity of the candidate and the perceived ability to run the commission were viewed as his strengths,” he said. He said with JLAC’s approval, it means debate over the committee’s report in the House will be a formality as MPs are not expected to vote. Rev Wabukala assumes the “hot seat” at a time when the country appears to be short of individuals with the resolve to fight corruption and save the economy billions of shillings said to be pilfered by corrupt individuals. This has not only tainted the country’s image abroad, but also denied ordinary Kenyans public services that would have been funded by the stolen funds. During the vetting, MPs were categorical that should the man of the cloth fail in the fight, it would be the last person that would have to be tried, as other professionals including renowned lawyers, judges and business people, had failed and unexpectedly left office. SLAY THE DRAGON We hope you will be able to slay the dragon because Kenyans are looking up to you as a man of integrity and a man of God. If you are not able, we do not know who else to turn to because we have tried other prominent Kenyans and they have failed,” said Kuresoi North MP Moses Cheboi. Of particular concern is how the former prelate will be able to stand firm, in the face of powerful interests, including MPs, who have the power to allocate budgets to the commission and who may collude with other corrupt government officials to frustrate the war against corruption. Rev Wabukala said it was up to the MPs, and everyone else to support the cause. He said once he stepped into office, he planned on “rewarding those who fight corruption and punishing those who condone it” saying the work of government was “divine” in punishing evil and rewarding good. Citing biblical references, he rebutted claims he was likely to “forgive and pray for offenders” giving instances where evil, or breaking of the law was punished, adding the same concept would apply in the fight against corruption. STABILISE SECRETARIAT Rev Wabukala also promised to “stabilise” the commission’s secretariat, amidst claims that it was “close to the Executive” and likely to frustrate war against prosecuting powerful individuals in government named in corruption. Former Law Society of Kenya President Apollo Mboya said the former prelate needed to ensure that policy in fighting graft was followed. “He is going to ensure that proper policy is implemented including ensuring that all investigation reports are tabled before the commission, and discussed before it is decided whether the files are forwarded to the Director of Public Prosecutions or the next course of action,” he said. Mr Mboya said the fact that the current commissioners were “part-time” would ensure there was a clear dichotomy of roles, avoiding conflicts like in the past leading to turf wars. Ethics and Anti-Corruption (EACC) spokesman Yassin Amaro defended the secretariat against claims of being compromised and fighting former chairmen and commissioners, who ended up being hounded out of office. He said they had left office due to their “personal issues.” Mr Amaro said the secretariat would be able to work “smoothly” with the incoming chairman, saying he “understood the war against corruption.” Some of the past EACC chairmen include businessman and former Kilome MP Harun Mwau, former retired Judge Aaron Ringera, renowned lawyer Patrick Lumumba, Mr Mumo Matemu and top auditor Philip Kinisu.   Parliament expected to convene a special sitting on January 17 to debate nominations.