The last voter registration ahead of the August elections commences today. The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission targets to list six million new voters to bring to about 20 million the number of Kenyans expected to vote this year. Political groupings have come out calling on all eligible voters to register because the elections will be determined by the numbers rather than political ideologies. But there are critical issues that have to be addressed. First, what is being done about thousands of Kenyans who have attained the age of 18 but who do not have national identity cards? The national ID card is a prerequisite for voter registration, so its issuance must be done concurrently with poll listing. Has the Registrar of Persons organised to swiftly issue the cards to this lot so that they can register and vote in August? Claims have even emerged that the IDs are being issued selectively to serve some political interests. Such concerns must be addressed to eliminate feelings that IDs are being used to manipulate voting. Related to this is the question of thousands of uncollected IDs at the respective government offices across the country. What is being done to get the owners to collect them? Second, IEBC must provide adequate resources and equipment, such as voter registration kits, to ensure even and equitable voting. In the past, politicians have complained of disparate allocation of resources, including the equipment and personnel, which they argued twisted voter listing and ultimately affected poll outcomes. Third, there are reports of voter importation and vote buying, intended to inflate the numbers in certain counties or constituencies. IEBC records indicate that about 500,000 such cases were reported in the last voter registration window. This is fraudulent, unethical and a breach of electoral laws; hence, it must be stamped out. IEBC must be vigilant and act against the culprits. As we push for mass voter registration, the IEBC and respective government agencies must provide the requisite resources and facilitation and curb fraudulent practices, to guarantee a successful General Election.  