The lives of Kenyans will be transformed when plans to bring down the cost of liquefied petroleum gas, commonly known as cooking gas, come to fruition. The effort to have cheap and safe cooking gas is a deliberate government plan to enable all Kenyans to have access to clean energy to replace kerosene and firewood, which have been linked to health problems. Access to clean, modern, safe, and efficient household energy is a critical cog in Kenya’s development plan. The country does not have a common user import terminal under the control of the government for cooking gas since there are no State-controlled storage facilities. However, plans are under way to increase the availability of clean and safe cooking fuel to households. There is a proposal for a common user and open access supply logistics system managed by the Kenya Pipeline Company. According to the plan, the company is to construct storage terminals in Mombasa, Nairobi, Nakuru, Eldoret, Kisumu, and Sagana to supply marketers and distributors across the country. There is sufficient space at the Kenya Petroleum Refineries Limited facility in Mombasa to construct an LPG bottling and storage plant. DEPLETING RESOURCES This will significantly drive down the cost of cooking gas and lock out unscrupulous suppliers who endanger the lives of thousands of Kenyans by selling sub-standard cylinders. According to data from the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics, LPG uptake surged by 233 per cent in the first five months of 2016, due to falling prices, with households buying 76,800 tonnes compared to 23,000 tonnes the previous year. In June, the government cancelled the 16 per cent value added tax that had been levied on cooking gas to make it more accessible. This encouraging trend signifies a good future with less deforestation and health complications among Kenyans. Much of sub-Saharan Africa, including Kenya, has had its natural forest cover stripped due to unsustainable reliance on wood fuel as a source of primary energy. In 1963, forests covered 10 per cent of the land in Kenya and by 2006, that had dropped to 1.7 per cent. The Kenya Forestry Working Group estimates that Kenya will lose Sh30 billion annually in the tourism, tea, and energy sectors due to deforestation. The resource is being depleted faster than it is being replenished and this is an obvious indicator that wood fuel is not a sustainable source of energy. BETTER ALTERNATIVEStudies have shown that thousands of deaths occur annually due to the adverse impact of indoor pollution due to unsafe fuels such as wood. The World Health Organization estimates that globally, over half-a-million premature deaths occur annually as a result of indoor pollution, exceeding the burden of malaria, tuberculosis, and Aids combined. One solution to the problem of indoor pollution is use of LPG, which also helps to save on the time needed to collect and prepare biomass fuel. Women spend a great deal of time collecting firewood. Use of cooking gas can drastically reduce this as well as the strain of carrying the heavy load. Cooking gas has the capacity to transform the country into a clean and cheap energy destination. The writer is the managing director, Kenya Pipeline Company. md@kpc.co.ke  