The Law Society of Kenya (LSK) has called on the National Police Service to carry out thorough investigations into the whereabouts of the lawyer who sought to stop the burial of former nominated MP Mark Too. Mr Simon Lilan disappeared on the same day Mr Too was buried, according to family members. Mr Too was buried on Monday at his Maziwa Farm in Uasin Gishu County. The lawyer’s family said he was last seen in Eldoret. LSK President Isaac Okero on Thursday said he communicated with Mr Lilan — an advocate of the High Court — on January 9 after speaking with the chairman of the LSK North Rift branch between 5.32pm and 5.37pm. “We have been in constant communication with his family and we have learnt that he disappeared on the same day,” Mr Okero said. Mr Lilan’s family has reported the matter to police and his older brother John Talam said the family was concerned about his safety. Mr Okero said he had spoken with the Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet concerning the disappearance of the lawyer. “The IG has given his assurance that police have received a missing person report and are looking for Mr Lilan,” Mr Okero said, urging Mr Boinnet to speed up investigations with hopes that the lawyer would return to his family safely. Read: Lawyer who sought to stop Mark Too burial goes missing Mr Talam said that on the day his brother disappeared, they met in Eldoret in the morning and thereafter, he left him in his car. “He told me that he was leaving town to go look for funds so that we could proceed to Ziwa for a political rally. "I waited for him till 4pm but he did not return and his phone was switched off,” Mr Talam recalled. The family told the media in Eldoret that the lawyer had on several occasions indicated that his life was in danger. After the death of Mr Too, Mr Lilan swore an affidavit claiming that the former MP had been assassinated. Mr Lilan’s disappearance comes at a time when Chief Justice David Maraga pointed out threats on lawyers pursuing sensitive cases as one of the biggest challenges facing the judicial system in Kenya. Last year, human rights lawyer Willie Kimani was found murdered alongside his client and their taxi driver. Their bodies were found in River Ol Donyo Sabuk. Four Administration Police officers have been charged with the murders. Another lawyer, Mr Albert Muriuki’s whereabouts are still unknown, almost four years after his disappearance.  