It is easy to be in awe of the glamour that comes with being on TV, hosting shows that draw millions of viewers and having strangers recognise you wherever you go. As viewers, we only see the good-looking, immaculately dressed men and women who present the news and host shows, never the hard, hard work and time that goes into producing these shows. This week, we take you through the rigorous process that goes into the production of your favourite TV show, and who better to offer this insight than the producers working behind the scenes?   theTrend: Airs Fridays, 8pm & 10pm on NTV Producer: Kevin Gitau To start us off, what does it take to be a TV producer? It takes good organisational skills, a firm grasp of what’s happening in the country and abroad, in most, if not all sectors, a good working relationship with everyone you come into contact with, and a knowledge of every detail of your show so that you would be able to sell it and defend it should the need arise. What did you study to qualify for a career in TV production? I studied Journalism with a focus on electronic media. This course helped shape my critical thinking, gave me skills in analysing stories, writing scripts, picking subjects/guests of interest and a knowledge in what will entertain an audience. It however did not prepare me for the technical bit of production due to limited resources at the institution. Most of the technical skills I have, I learnt during internship and on the job. Most people want to play the forefront role, be presenters or hosts, have you ever considered this? I did – for two seconds. I saw the hustle and the negative side of being in the public eye through the lives of those I work with, and decided it is not the life I want. In fact, I shouldn’t even be doing this interview, but you’re my friend… Lucky me. Take us through the process of piecing together theTrend I would describe it as hectic fun. I don’t work alone. We are basically a team of three; Larry Madowo, Dr. Kingori, who produces the 8pm #TTTT show, and I. We brainstorm and come up with ideas and themes for the show. The content has to be exciting, informative, controversial or basically just fun - there is never a dull moment on theTrend. As expected, people wanting to get featured on the show reach out to us. Unfortunately, most don’t fit the bill, so we have to turn them down. What is it like working Larry Madowo? Difficult. If it were easy, I wouldn’t be doing this show. He has to be that way because he is the face and brand of the show. We do bad, he looks bad. We’ve made him look bad many times through our mistakes. Sometimes he saves the situation, sometimes he just gets annoyed. If he didn’t know what he wanted and how to get it done, and give us (the whole team including directors and camera men) the space and time to be creative and grow, or call us out when we do a horrendous show, I wouldn’t be working on the show. I feel I need to add that I have nothing to do with what Larry wears on the show. Please give him all the credit he deserves. (Laughs) What are some of the most challenging aspects of your job? A guest cancelling at the last minute on a live show is the worst thing that can happen to a producer. It disorganises the show such that it is difficult to totally salvage it. Which is the biggest show you have produced so far? In terms of production capacity, that is equipment, crew, audience and other factors, I’d say the Valentines Show at the Kempinski. The other is when we hosted theTrend at Kenyatta University during the launch of this magazine, myNetwork. My best show to date was the one we held at Zetech University. The guests, crowd, our audience at home and the crew were all very happy with that one. You are currently producing two shows, The Wicked Edition and theTrend – is it difficult balancing the two? As I said, to be a prolific producer, you need to be highly organised. I work in advance and the rest flows. Also, I have different teams working on the two shows, and I delegate roles accordingly. Also, working with Dr. Kingori on theTrend and on The Wicked Edition really helps because we understand each other’s working technics and therefore work better and faster together. When you hold auditions for talent for a show, what are you usually looking for? Talent. We have featured talented people on the Trend, whether they are famous or not. Talent is appreciated by everyone, it does not matter whether you are household name or not. Creativity and uniqueness goes a long way. What would you tell aspiring producers reading this? Never be afraid to take risks or try something different. When you get here, fight for what you believe in, give the show your absolute best, and inspire others to do the same, appreciate and listen keenly to negative criticism. Also, don’t let the positive criticism influence the show or change your character. *******   10/10: The dance show airs on Citizen TV on Fridays, 10pm Producer: Kevin Njuguna How did you get into TV production? Growing up, I watched lots of TV shows and news. I remember when KBC launched a virtual studio, it intrigued me so much, I wanted to find out what magic had been used to set up that studio. Fast forward years later, here I am now. Once you identified your interest in TV production, what steps did you take to get you closer to your dream job? I stared by joining the Kenya Institute of Mass Communication, KIMC, immediately after high school. I studied TV production, with a focus on directing, because I wanted to be at the center of everything. Besides this, I also networked with people who could help me get a foot into the industry and later grow. What is your work day like? Almost every day is a working day for me because besides 10/10, I also produce the breakfast show on Inooro TV. I report to work at 5am. My colleagues and I start by setting up the studio, and then together with the presenters, we plan the show from beginning to end. This includes calling up our interviewees to confirm attendance. The show takes three hours. I take a brief coffee break at 10am and then attend editorial meetings. If there is no live show that requires a director or my presence after that, I leave at 11am. That’s a typical weekday for me. On weekends, I produce Gospel Sunday, which we usually plan on Saturday and travel if the show is out of town. What is the process involved in piecing together an episode of 10/10? We usually have a post-production analysis meeting on Mondays since the show ends very late on Friday. We do this to review where we went wrong and what we can improve on. During these meetings, we also review the requests we get from artists to be featured on the show. We weigh the value that an artist is going to add to our show and decide on the ones to go with. We then discuss the following week’s content. What has been the biggest challenge you have faced so far in your job? Last minute cancellations by artists. Some artists pull out right before the show and force you into making last minute changes that adversely affect the show. I remember during a past event in Mombasa where we had invited Wizkid to our set, which had been sponsored by Coca-Cola. A few minutes before the show kicked off, his manager informed us that we could not interview the artist since he is Nigeria’s Pepsi ambassador. How many people are involved in your productions? I work with a crew of over 19 – camera men, sound men, floor managers – I have to ensure that they are all doing their job at all times. There is a young person reading this who aspires to become a TV producer, what is the most helpful advice you can give him or her? Learn as much as you can from as many people as possible. Understand the content that you want to produce and the kind of audience you want to appeal to. As long as you are passionate about it, you will find your way. ******   Auntie Boss: Airs Tuesdays at 8pm on NTV Producer: Eve D’Souza You started as a radio presenter and ended up as a TV producer, how did that transition happen? Whilst on Radio, a producer on KTN, Lucy Mwangi, reached out to me to ask whether I’d audition to host a kid’s show called Triple Challenge. We then worked together again when I co-hosted the teens show ‘Vibe City’. One thing led to another, and we both quit our jobs and opened up Moon Beam Productions together! To be honest I’ve learned so much about TV and its production from Lucy, who is a fantastic producer. How did Auntie Boss come about? That emanated from a hilarious one-hour conversation in the office between Lucy and I, as we swapped stories about our experiences with our house-helps. We hadn’t laughed like that in a long time. Lucy said, “This would make a great TV show.”  It did. What role do you exactly play in the show’s production? I handle the storylines, sourcing talent and manage the production crew. I also source for permanent sets and securing locations for smaller scenes such as restaurants, clubs and salons. I also control the budget, source the needed props, and secure financing for production. Producers live very stressful lives, I never believed it until now! You act and you produce, isn’t this too much to take on? Lucy is the head producer, and whatever requires supervision on a daily basis is delegated to our production manager. They will always consult with me and I’ll help out with talent, props, wardrobe, locations and budget issues as much as I can, but I don’t have the burden of overseeing it fully so I can commit to acting at the same time. What did you study at university and did it help you in your career? I got my Bachelor of Education degree in English and Literature at the Catholic University of Eastern Africa. In my fourth year, we had to put on a play. I was cast as a very dramatic character, and my lecturer was a little taken aback at how the quiet polite little ‘mouse’ transformed on stage. That’s the only time I did any acting but I thoroughly enjoyed it! What must-have skills does a TV producer possess? Creativity and a great imagination is key. Being able to maintain your cool under pressure, being patient with people, being able to juggle a hundred problems at the same time and being able to manage people and keep them happy under very difficult circumstances. The biggest skill which I’ve seen many producers struggle with is being able to work within a very modest budget and stick to it without compromising on quality. What is the most challenging aspect of your job? The hours of work we put in. Not only for me, but the talent and production crew. I have never before experienced such exhaustion, especially if you’re filming weeks on end – it is mentally and physically draining. Do you think one needs to go to school to become a great producer? Not at all! Being a good producer, or director or even actor stems from creativity and passion. That’s a foundation you can build and grow on. Film is one area where you don’t have to care about one’s grades in school. What have you learnt from this? Don’t do it for the money because you will be in for a rude awakening. It is also very tough when you first start out, access to financing is the most stressful part of producing and then getting someone who believes in your idea is another obstacle. All I can say is this is not for the faint hearted! *********    Victoria’s Lounge: Airs Thursdays at 8pm on NTV Producer: Deborah Mwavua What role do you play in putting together the show? I joined the team a few months after the show was launched. My role as a producer is making sure that all the logistics needed to produce a successful show, are well executed. We are a team of three - Mercelline Maroma, my supervisor and the production manager of the show, and Victoria. Together, we come up with the right conversations for the show, accompanied by the suitable guests. I then co-ordinate the logistics with the production departments, including the camera crew, sound, engineers, director and drivers, before we commence on recording. In a nutshell, my role as the producer is to ensure that we have a good end product for our viewers. Have you produced other shows? If so, how different are the experiences compared to producing Victoria’s Lounge? I have produced Agenda Kenya, which was a political audience-based talk show on NTV and Eco Journal, which ran on KTN an environmental show. on which stations? The experience of producing the two shows is totally different compared to what I am doing now. For Victoria’s Lounge, I have added responsibilities since it is upon me to ensure that we have a good show on air. For the other shows, I had a smaller list of responsibilities, and other departments would follow through to the end. As a producer, what defines a successful show? A successful show is one that has content that resonates with the audience, one that has good quality sound and picture, and is directed and edited well. You work closely with Victoria Rubadiri, what do you know that we don’t? Victoria is a very detailed individual who likes things done the right way, and I therefore have to be meticulous at what I do and how I do it. She is especially particular about time. She is a stickler to time, therefore, I have to ensure that all the show recordings start on time. She is also highly creative and does not shy away from exploring new ideas. I feel motivated and excited to work on the show since there are constantly new opportunities of trying out things differently. Did what you studied in college relevant to your job? I have a degree in Social Communication with a specialisation in TV production, so yes, it is Relevant. What skills should an aspiring TV producer have? You need good communication and networking skills, creativity, and be in the know concerning what is happening not just here, but all over the world. You also need to be able to handle pressure when the unexpected happens, such as a technical failure during recording and guests pulling out because it does. Also, there is no room for laxity as a producer.  