Prominent politicians and businessmen have been linked to cattle rustling that has led to the loss of dozens of lives in North Rift and Laikipia. Revelations of a cattle rustling cartel, mainly from pastoralist communities, have emerged, with indications that the raiders could be working hand-in-hand with rogue security officers to run or facilitate a multi-billion shilling trade in stolen and confiscated animals. Investigations by the Nation revealed that prominent people and businessmen could be supporting and benefitting from the illegal trade that has caused conflicts in several parts of the Rift Valley. On Tuesday, Rift Valley Regional Coordinator Wanyama Musiambo unearthed part of the cartel that is believed to be behind cattle rustling in Laikipia and Baringo Counties. Mr Musiambo has since linked it to prominent people and businessmen whom he said could be funding the illegal trade. The administrator led the recovery of twelve cows which were among 400 cows stolen from Muge farm in Laikipia County. The cattle were recovered at Mogotio trading centre in Nakuru County. The cows were abandoned near a slaughter house in Mogotio Trading Centre by suspected bandits who fled on learning that they being pursued by police. The recovery indicates that stolen animals from parts of the region could be finding their way to local abattoirs and later sold to unsuspecting members of the public. Eye witnesses said the suspects who were about to offload the animals in readiness to secure a market for them on learning that police were trailing them,fled on foot,leaving them on a lorry they were using. According to Mr Musiambo who was accompanied by the Officer Commanding Police Division (OCPD) Mogotio, Patrick Nyangaresi and area deputy county commissioner Philip Nzungo, unscrupulous businessmen could be behind the cattle rustling. According to intelligence reports the suspects are part of a cartel that sponsors the cattle rustlers with firearms and lorries to ferry the animals to slaughter houses in different areas. The administrator warned that the government has identified the cartels and will destroy their cells. “We will deal firmly with cattle rustlers across the Rift Valley region. They are the cause of insecurity in most parts of Baringo ,Laikipia and the North Rift areas at large,”he said. Mr Musiambo further issued a warning against unscrupulous businessmen in the region whom he said could be enriching themselves at the expense of innocent citizens. He revealed that police are tracking cattle raiders who stole animals from 15 ranches in Laikipia County in a period of less than one month.  