Q. I am a fruit vendor in Nanyuki, a business I started after completing my diploma in interior design two years ago. The business is doing quite well, and is able to cater for my needs. A friend linked me with a designer in the city, who has offered me a job. I’m yet to make up my mind about the offer though. I’m afraid that I will lose my independence, and even worse, have to wait for a whole month to earn my salary. Is this worth it?  First, you need to identify where your passion lies - is it in interior design or business? Also, what is the future prospect of both undertakings? Once you answer these questions, it will be easy for you to make the best decision. There are pros and cons of self-employment and being employed. Evaluate them. In self-employment for instance, there is freedom in terms of working hours as well as decision-making concerning the business. Also, the income in your business is commensurate with the effort you put in it, and of course there is a regular flow of income throughout the month as opposed to having to wait for a salary at the end of the month. However, there are people who prefer the certainty and stability of having a pay cheque at a particular time since it facilitates better financial planning. When formally employed, you are assured of pay for a period of time when you are unwell, depending on the sick off policy of an organisation, unlike in self-employment where your absence can translate to less income unless you have hired someone to assist you. You also have planned time off for resting during leave, which is paid for unlike when you are in business. There is also the fact that businesses are affected by economic decline, which may also affect the profits you make. You could consider taking the job offer so that you can enjoy the best of both worlds. If your business is self-sustaining, you can employ someone to run it, in this way, you will have a steady and assured income on a monthly basis. It is a win-win situation since you will earn a salary and still have your business. Since you seem to be good in business, after gaining experience in interior design, you could consider setting up a business in interior design. This will grow your portfolio. When you get to this point, you can decide to leave formal employment and grow your businesses or continue working, but employ people to manage the business as long as there is no conflict of interest with your employer. The final decision is yours, I hope these factors will help you choose the best option.  