Teachers have faulted Education Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i for his announcement that the government will take action against principals whose schools recorded poor results in last year’s KCSE examinations. While the teachers agree that action needs to be taken to improve performance, they claim Dr Matiang’i’s approach was ridiculous and meant to intimidate them. Clement Gicharu, the Kenya National Union of Teachers Kiambu East executive secretary, and a number of principals, who spoke on condition of anonymity for the fear of reprisals, said the minister should embrace a holistic approach while dealing with the issue, but should not target teachers alone. According to Mr Gicharu, apart from teachers, there are many other factors that could contribute to poor performance for any school, among them student ability, how effectively education stakeholders work together and the environment. He added: “We (Knut) will not allow him (Matiang’i) to cause unnecessary fear and panic among the teachers. We have been supporting his activities, but on this one, we are not with him and we will not allow him [to] take that route.” EXPLORE EXTERNAL FACTORS In last year’s KCSE exams, out of the over 500,000 candidates who sat the test, only 88,928 attained C-plus and above compared with 169,492 candidates in 2015. A principal from a school in Gatundu South echoed Mr Gicharu’s views, saying Dr Matiang’i should first explore all internal and external factors that influence poor performance before taking any action. The principal cited factors such as entry criteria for each school, saying in the Form One intake, some schools select students who scored 400 marks and above in their KCPE exams, while some admit those who scored 250 and below. However, the teachers and their union said they were comfortable with the minister's plan to intensify his impromptu visits to schools especially over the issue of fees following claims of irregular charges. Meanwhile, education stakeholders have been urged to embrace the changes brought by Dr Matiang’i to curb examination irregularities. Speaking in Chuka on Sunday, PCEA moderator-general Julius Mwamba said cheating in exams was the source of corruption and bad leadership because exam cheats ultimately offer poor services after studying and graduating with degrees in courses they were not suited for.   Teachers unions insist that the country requires over 90,000 teachers to address shortage.