He is no doubt well-connected, successful and flashy, but Nairobi businessman Chris Obure (not the senator) is also fast gaining a reputation as fabulously trigger-happy. And while on his gun escapades, his adversaries say, he seems to be on the right side of law enforcement, for little, if anything, is ever done to reprimand him. Barely two months after he assaulted a man and fired seven rounds into the air at a club in Westlands, Mr Obure was in the news again last Friday night after he threatened to shoot a reveller at Kilimani’s B-Club. The scuffle did not escalate, but he is said to have brandished his gun. PUBLIC OUTCRY Following a public outcry, the police have now directed Mr Obure to surrender his firearm immediately. According to a report made at the Kilimani Police Station, Mr Obure had double-parked his black Range Rover, blocking other customers. When he was called to the parking yard, he instead got furious and threatened to shoot the two customers waiting to drive out of the parking lot. In the ensuing melee, he is accused of breaking the driver’s window of a silver Volkswagen Passat. On Monday, Kilimani Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) boss Phyllis Kanina recorded the statements of the complainant and witnesses. The investigations are expected to be completed by Wednesday. ANOTHER GUN? Police say the businessman has in the last few months been caught up in at least five cases involving gun misuse in Nairobi. They, however, could not explain why action had not been taken against him. They could also not explain how many firearms Mr Obure possesses, as sources have indicated that a pistol licensed to him is being held by the DCI’s Flying Squad over claims that it had been misused. The Firearms Act requires all gun holders to safely keep their firearms and only remove them when they want to use them. Guns in civilian hands should not be exposed, especially in public or social places. On November 2 last year, Mr Obure was accused of threatening to shoot Alex Lwin at The Klub House on Ojijo Road in Parklands, but no action was taken, though a complaint had been filed at the Parklands Police Station. Frustrated at the slow pace of police action, Mr Lwin later officially complained to DCI chief Ndegwa Muhoro, the Independent Policing Oversight Authority (Ipoa), and the Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions. RISING GUN MISUSE CASES In his petition, Mr Lwin asked the authorities to investigate the assault and misuse of the firearm. Two months later, Mr Obure is yet to be disarmed despite a recommendation in an investigation report that he be apprehended and charged. “I am dissatisfied with the manner in which this case was quickly but quietly dispensed with by the Parklands police and it is my humble request that this case be escalated to the Criminal Investigation Division level as it is rightfully within your jurisdiction to investigate,” Mr Lwin’s petition read in part. Mr Obure is said to have assaulted Mr Lwin, brandished his gun, and fired several times into the air following a confrontation involving a woman. “All the necessary evidence was laid bare at Parklands Police Station, including spent cartridges, and we have lined up several witnesses,” Mr Lwin says in the appeal to Mr Muhoro. Director of Executive Protection Services George Musamali noted an increase in incidents of guns being misused. “There has also been an increase in the misuse of firearms in the country, with the police blamed for reluctance to act on the offenders,” he said. The process of acquiring such firearms has also been questioned.  