The Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) party is, by all standards, a respectable political player in the country. It has been very instrumental in positive social and political discourse for the decade-plus period it has been on the national scene. In fact, ODM is the face of the opposition in Kenya. It is for this reason that high ranking members of the party need to interrogate their intended statements before they make them, especially when such sentiments touch on sensitive and emotive topics. The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) and the entire electoral process is one issue that has lately dominated debate. The General Election is scheduled for August 8, and, given that elections literally mean life and death to many Kenyans, it is only fair that politicians are allowed to vent their feelings. The ongoing debate on the controversial Election Laws (Amendment) Bill deserves all the attention that it is getting. And the Senate this week gave an opportunity to those with a say to be heard. Political parties, professionals, the clergy, and even individuals got a chance to comment on the proposed law that was controversially passed by the National Assembly at the end of last year. Debate is also ongoing on the suitability of the individuals whose names have been recommended for appointment as chairman and commissioners of the IEBC. Kenyans have been called upon to present any opinions on the suitability of the seven men and women to the Parliamentary Committee on Justice and Legal Affairs before the National Assembly convenes to vet the candidates later this month. And here is where caution should be taken and reason made to prevail. FAULTY ARGUMENT We need to be objective and offer opinions that will move the process forward rather than backwards. It is in this light that I find sentiments attributed to ODM legislators early in the week rather backward, pun intended. Rarieda MP Nicholas Gumbo and his Ugenya counterpart, Mr David Ochieng, are reported to have “accused the Jubilee government of marginalising certain communities when it comes to top jobs”. That would have been a fair comment if credible examples were to be given. But, pray, the main exemplification of the day just flies flat in the face of the claim. The two gentlemen were referring to the decision by President Uhuru Kenyatta to nominate Mr Wafula Chebukati as the new chairman of the IEBC with six other commissioners-designate. Just how does the Jubilee government get to be blamed for a process that was conducted by a panel agreed on by and representing various segments of the society? The IEBC selection panel that presented two names for the chairmanship of the commission is headed by Mrs Bernadette Musundi, who represents the Kenya Conference of Catholic Bishops. UNREALISTICE The nine-member panel includes Bishop David Oginde, the Rev Peter Karanja, Prof Abdulghafur El-Busaidy and Mr Rajesh Rawal, all of who represent religious groups. The other four, nominated by the Parliamentary Service Commission, are Mr Evans Monari, Ms Mary Karen Kigen-Sorobit, Justice (Rtd) Tom Mbaluto and Ms Ogla Chepkemoi Karani. Just where is Jubilee government in this panel? In fact, Ms Karani is the ODM National Deputy Treasurer. And then the two MPs delved into another familiar cliché that has come to define the complaints associated with ODM and, by extension, Cord, that of tribalism. Noticing that those nominees do not come mainly from President Kenyatta’s or Deputy President William Ruto’s ethnic backyards, Mr Gumbo, the chairman of the Parliamentary Public Accounts Committee, and Mr Ochieng, chose to become academic about it. According to the two, tribalism is bad “applied forwards or backwards”. Whatever that means I do not see how the commission can accommodate 42 members so that every tribe is represented. Even as we encourage freedom of expression, these two MPs need to be told that some arguments are not worthy propagating. Mr Mugwang’a is a communications consultant based in Nairobi. E-mail: Michael.mugwanga@gmail.com. Twitter: Mykeysoul  