Jubilee aspirants and supporters have launched a smart card the party terms as a one-stop solution to the membership list and headaches associated with primaries. President Uhuru Kenyatta led the function attended by his Deputy William Ruto, a host of sitting governors, senators, MPs and MCAs at the Kasarani Gymnasium in Nairobi. The aspirants and elected leaders sported Jubilee colours, red and yellow, and are waving the party's flag. SECURITY TIGHT Many complained of a painstakingly long and thorough security screening at the gate of the venue. President Kenyatta and Mr Ruto urged all Jubilee aspirants to sell the party, recruit members and deliver votes.   The President sought to address fears that he and Mr Ruto favour some aspirants gunning for the party's tickets, saying he recognises all of them as Jubilee members. "In here, we don't have president, deputy president, governor, senator, MP or MCA. We are all Jubilee members," he said. NASA VOW "I don't recognise William Kabogo or Ferdinand Waititu... I don't recognise Johnson Sakaja, Mike Sonko or Margaret Wanjiru... they are all members of Jubilee and that is what matters," he added.   Mr Ruto hit out at the opposition, led by Raila Odinga, saying they have nothing to offer the country. He dismissed the opposition's vow to remove Jubilee from power, saying if they did not make it in the 2013 elections, they do not stand a chance in August. The meeting comes just two days after the opposition, in a show of might, vowed to unseat Mr Kenyatta in the August elections.   The card has a unique bar code that will capture the member's details including name, identity card number and phone numbers. The document will cost Sh20 and only members who will have acquired it will be allowed to vote in the party's nominations.   "No one will be able to vote more than once in nominations as Jubilee goes smart," Raphael Tuju, the head of the Jubilee Party Secretariat, told the Nation. After receiving the card, members will be required to send an SMS to 30553 to activate it.   "You can also be manually registered at our county branch offices," Mr Tuju said. During nominations, the bar code will be scanned to ascertain authenticity of membership and the card.   Uhuru to unveil card on Friday which will be used by members to access party polling stations.