A German tourist has died while swimming on an Indian Ocean beach in Kilifi County. The body of 66-year-old Anderseck Gunter was found floating about 500 metres from Kilifi Bay Beach Resort by fishermen on Sunday morning. The tourist had stayed at the hotel for more than a week and died during his usual early morning swim in the ocean, said Mada Hotels General Manager Peter Njoroge. Mr Njoroge said the man had left his hotel room at around 6am for a routine swim but did not return. Mr Njoroge told journalists in his office that at around 9am, he received a phone call that a visitor from his hotel had been found dead on the shores. “Since his arrival at the hotel, Mr Gunter had formed a habit of going to the beach very early in the morning to swim," Mr Njoroge said. "That is what he did Sunday but as fate would have it, he drowned. When I went to the scene on receiving a call that a visitor from the hotel had been found dead at its shores, I identified him through the all-inclusive hotel’s arm band, as one Mr Anderseck Gunter from Germany. "He was booked into the hotel on January 2 and was expected to return home on January 22,” Mr Njoroge said. ALONE The tourist had left his slippers and towel on the beach bar as he dashed to the ocean for the swim. That was the last time he was seen alive, the general manager said, adding that it was still unclear how he died since he was alone. “The information we have is that this guest left the hotel for swimming in the ocean because our beach is very private. I think he drowned,” Mr Njoroge said. He said police who were called to the scene checked on the body and the tourist's room, where they found a bottle of whisky and some medicine. “The bottle of whisky was half full so we don’t know whether he had taken it last night or in the morning before heading to the ocean. "This is an isolated case and I want to assure the public that the hotel is safe. We have not had any other incident like this,” said Mr Njoroge. He added that a doctor’s report had recommended that a post-mortem be done to ascertain the cause of death. “We have informed all his family members in Nairobi, Mombasa and in Europe. “This client did not have any history of any disease. In fact he was very jovial to every person [in] the hotel,” said Mr Njoroge. Kilifi OCPD Alexander Makau, who also visited the scene, told journalists that police were investigating the death. “For now, I can confirm to you that initial investigations have shown that Mr Gunter drowned but we shall have the full information after the post-mortem report is out,” said Mr Makau. The body was taken to the Pandya Hospital mortuary in Mombasa.  