After the release of the Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) examination results a few days to the New Year, several pundits emerged from the woodwork to discuss the unprecedented shift in the distribution of the results. Less than a fifth of the candidates managed to score a grade that qualifies them to join any of the local universities, and a significant proportion scored the lowest grades. Superficial arguments were made about the shape of the results curve, and the fact that it did not conform to the statistical “normal distribution curve” in which the majority of the candidates would be clustered around the “pass” mark. In this sort of thing, it suffices to note that normal distribution curves would more appropriately apply to intelligence tests targeting a random sample of the entire population. Indeed, the tests are “normalised” by ensuring that they test age and culturally appropriate concepts so as to avoid, for instance, labelling a Kenyan as intellectually challenged for not being able to name the 22nd president of the United States of America. Intelligence Quotient (IQ) tests are, therefore, designed to determine the candidate’s position along the “normal distribution” continuum, compared to his or her peers. Unfortunately, the KCSE examination is not, strictly speaking, an IQ test. It is a test aimed at measuring a candidate’s knowledge and skill gained after a cumulative period of at least 12 years of formal education. It tests recall and application of knowledge as well as modes of expression and communication. Students with high IQs will obviously have an advantage in this examination, but beyond a certain level differences in IQ cannot predict who will do better than another. Conversely, students with average IQs but who are more organised or have better rote-learning abilities stand a higher chance of excelling in this examination. OPPORTUNITIESAlso, the collection of subjects might be of little interest to a high-IQ child, leading to boredom and eventual poor performance. IQ tests are structured differently in order to be able to assess the different facets of intelligence. Since KCSE is clearly not a measure of intelligence, the results will depend on much more than just intelligence and, therefore, the distribution curve cannot be expected to reflect the statistical “normal curve”. Supposing even that KCSE was an IQ test, would the results yield a “normal distribution” curve clustering around the university entry cut-off grade? Obviously not! The population of KCSE candidates is not a statistically “normal” sample of the general population. They are highly selected for factors that set them apart from the majority of Kenyans. For starters, they have endured at least 12 years of formal education, unlike most Kenyans. According to UNDP, Kenyans go to school for an average of six years, and only about 29 per cent of the adult population has been to secondary school. Our KCSE candidates are, therefore, among a select minority in our population whose intelligence characteristics are likely to be different from the general population and “normal” distribution curve logic should be expected from their examination results. We should, therefore, be preoccupied with the opportunities available to the candidates after KCSE. HIGHER PURPOSEListening to most commentators, it was evident that their problem was more deep-seated than the distribution of the results. The main question that kept echoing through all discussions was how can such a large number of candidates “fail” and what are we going to do with them? My immediate interpretation of this “failure” was that it meant the failure to achieve university entry grades. These pundits seem to believe that the goal of educating our youth is to send them to university. But education should have loftier goals than just enabling the learner to earn a degree. The lowest expectation for education is to enable the learner to interact adaptively and productively with the rest of society in order to secure a dignified existence. Atwoli is associate professor of psychiatry and dean, School of Medicine, Moi University; lukoye@gmail.com  