The Lands ministry has once again embarked on digitising records with the objective of enhancing service delivery. The mess and confusion in that ministry is not news, hence any attempt to create order is welcome. However, it is questionable why it is taking too long to complete the digitisation and equally important, to restore sanity to the ministry. Way back under the Grand Coalition government, the ministry undertook major reforms that included digitising and updating records and clearing cartels that had a tight grip over land operations. The public was made to believe that the ministry had turned the corner and that land transactions would henceforth be efficient. Similarly, in the early years of the Jubilee administration, the ministry under then-Cabinet Secretary Charity Ngilu rolled out a high-profile records digitisation and the pronouncement at the end was that the mess had been cleared and cartels had been sent packing. Some progress was made, but to date, land transactions remain a nightmare. Digitising records is one thing, but that does not address the fundamental issues. The whole question of governance, management and integrity has not been tackled. A number of lands officials long mastered the art of subterfuge. Lands records are never straight as the fellows have perfected the art of manipulating them. Then there is the chain of brokers, right from the districts to the head office, who make it difficult for ordinary people to get services. They work in cahoots with ministry officials. Land remains an emotive subject and has in recent years taken even an ethnic and political dimension. Cases abound where people are evicted from land they own because they do not historically belong to certain regions, as happened after the 2007 elections. Politicians have also taken to allocating land to woo voters. The ministry must conclude digitisation, which is long overdue. But it must carry out structural, legal and governance reforms to tackle the underlying challenges.  