Football Kenya Federation president Nick Mwendwa on Saturday said that the expansion of the Kenyan Premier League from 16 to 18 teams would cost about Sh35 million. Appearing on NTV’s weekly sports magazine show, Top Sport, Mwendwa said that the federation will pump some money into the kitty, while additional funds will be sourced from sponsors. “The money cannot be an issue. The Joint Executive Committee met and our prognosis is that we will require about Sh35 million,” said Mwendwa. “We are lining up potential sponsors, who are already wiling to come on board. Additionally, there is a fee (license fee) which KPL pay to the federation every year. This fee is about Sh7 million, and we could ask KPL to channel the funds for this purpose while we also source for more sponsors,” he explained. Mwendwa added that following the Joint Executive Committee meeting on Friday, the two parties had agreed on modalities and mechanism of the expansion of the league adding that should the three teams – Sofapaka, Muhoroni Youth and Thika United – who were disqualified from participating in the 2017 season for failing to meet the Caf Club Licensing requirements be successful in their appeals, then the league shall consist of 18 teams beginning next month. However, in the event that their appeals are thrown out, a 15-team league will be constituted for this season but its size shall gradually expand in the succeeding seasons (with an additional team added each year) until 2020 when the number reaches 18. “These modalities have been agreed upon with KPL and we shall be presenting these findings to the Tribunal on Tuesday,” he added. Kenyan Premier League CEO Jack Oguda said: “We will present the documents to the tribunal on Tuesday.” The two parties were last week directed by the John Ohaga-led Sports Disputes Tribunal to discuss the mechanism and merits of an expanded league and report their findings on Tuesday. Last season, each of the 16 teams which participated in the top flight league received approximately Sh7 million annual grants from the league body and having an 18-team league would stretch the annual grant budget to approximately 130 million.  