Devolution Cabinet Secretary Mwangi Kiunjuri will soon announce whether to vie for a political seat in Laikipia County. In an exclusive interview with Nation.co.ke, Mr Kiunjuri revealed that he was at a crossroads on the matter but said he will make his stand known in less than 21 days. Mr Kiunjuri explained that he is torn between serving in a political seat in his home county and remaining loyal to the Jubilee administration that appointed him. “It is a tough decision because it is not just about remaining in government yet my people suffer. Also, there is the question of my loyalty to the government,” said Mr Kiunjuri. He said he will be holding talks with President Uhuru Kenyatta and his Deputy William Ruto on the matter and will make a decision based on their response. “I will speak to my bosses on the matter and from how they take the matter and advise me I will make my decision. In the next three weeks I will have decided,” he said. The minister, as required by the Election Campaigns Financing Act, presented his papers to the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission before the December 8 deadline. Further, he has held talks with local political and religious leaders on his plans but insists he will not be supporting any candidate seeking the top county job. According to Mr Kiunjuiri, his position in government does not allow him to be politically vocal. “I would like to make a mark on the political scene and talk about issues freely as they emerge both nationally and locally. The liberty and political freedom is part of the reason I am considering to vie,” he said. There has been wild speculation on whether he will resign and join the Laikipia gubernatorial contest in a bid to unseat Governor Joshua Irungu. It has also sparked jitters among locals seeking the same post. Mr Irungu beat Mr Kiunjuiri by over 40,000 votes to rise to the helm of the county leadership but the minister seems to have gained popularity in the past year and a half. Mr Kiunjuiri continues to drum up support for the re-election of President Kenyatta as he tries to consolidate the votes of Laikipia residents under the Jubilee Party.  