Kanu officials from the North Rift have told National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale to respect former President Daniel arap Moi's family. The leaders were reacting to comments by Mr Duale during the burial of former nominated MP Mark Too that former Chief of General Staff Mohamud Mohamed rescued the former president from the bush during the 1982 attempted coup. They were addressing journalists in Eldoret on Tuesday. Led by Kanu Rift Valley Coordinator Jonathan Bii, the officials said Mr Duale’s utterances were uncalled-for. Others who reacted to Mr Duale’s remarks included Uasin Gishu County Kanu chairman David Chepsiror and Benjamin Letting’, a party member. The Kanu officials told Mr Duale to keep off Rift Valley politics and focus on his re-election campaign in Garissa. “Our region has enough elders who can unite Senator Gideon Moi and the deputy president,” said Mr Letting’. ICC CASES Mr Bii also dismissed Mr Duale's claims that Deputy President William Ruto and former radio journalist Joshua arap Sang were fixed by people from the Kalenjin community in their crimes-against-humanity cases at the International Criminal Court. “The ICC issue is over now. Don't use ICC to solicit for votes. Just come up with other policies to win election. Don't paint us as aggressors,” said Mr Bii. Speaking during Mr Too's burial, Mr Duale called on Kanu chairman Gideon Moi to support Mr Ruto's bid for the presidency in 2022. “Sisi kama jamii ya wafugaji tulimbeba baba yako kwa mgongo kwa miaka mingi (We as the pastoralists supported your father’s presidency for many years). It's now your turn to support Mr Ruto's bid,” said Mr Duale. He accused the Baringo senator of sowing seeds of discord among members of the Kalenjin community. Former Kenyan high commissioner to Australia Stephen Tarus also called on Mr Duale to be cautious in his utterances as the country approaches the election. “This is the time to sell the ideals of the Jubilee administration. What we need is to develop a manifesto which will attract Kenyans to the party, not coercion,” said Mr Tarus, who is eyeing the Chesumei parliamentary seat. He termed Mr Duale’s remarks on the 1982 attempted coup as unfortunate and unnecessary. “It was the duty of the security instruments at that time to protect the country and the head of State. The retired president should be left to enjoy his retirement in peace,” Mr Tarus said.  