Kenyans across the country ushered in the new year in style, thronging churches and entertainment joints amid tight security. And wherever they were, the crowds broke into wild cheers as the clock struck midnight, signalling the arrival of the new year, in a ritual that brings the curtains down on the December festive season. In Nakuru town, local residents and tourists alike broke into celebrations at midnight as spectacular firework displays lit the skies. “We thank God for his protection in the previous year and that is why we had to celebrate and usher the New Year in style. I just like it,” said Ms Mary Kiago at the Waterbuck hotel within Nakuru town. Most entertainment joints including discos and drinking dens were packed with hundreds of revellers ready to usher in 2017. In places of worship across the town, residents sang and prayed for a better year. Father Moses Muraya, who led hundreds of faithful at the St Monica Catholic Church in Section 58, urged Kenyans to preach peace and co-existence as the country prepares for the August General Election. “Let Kenyans not be divided by politics in this election year. I urge all to vote and elect God fearing leaders peacefully without bloodshed,” he said. ENGAGE IN TALKS He also urged Opposition Cord leaders to engage in talks with the government over the controversial electoral laws and avoid a repeat of demonstrations over the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission witnessed earlier last year. At the Kings Outreach Church grounds, Prophet David Owuor, who was in Nakuru town for his Sixth international pastors conference, led thousands of the church leaders and faithful in a night vigil to usher in the New Year. Security was also beefed up in the town and its environs with police patrolling the streets. In Kisii County, Christians thronged churches to usher in the New Year, even as the clergy urged for peace in the country ahead of the elections. At Kisii Town Catholic Parish, Vicar General Father Jeremiah Nyakundi urged the faithful to coexist peacefully. He urged them to pray for the country and its political leadership, saying the country has had its fair share of dark chapters in the past year that must not be allowed to contaminate the New Year. At the Kisii Seventh Day Adventist, Elder Zebedeo Mongare urged Kenyans to pray for peaceful election. “Even as we go to elections, let us know that God has already ordained who will be President and there is no reason for fighting,” he said. Earlier, Kisii Governor James Ongwae led the residents in ushering in the new year at Gusii Stadium where he criticised local political leaders for not recognising his development record. He told off his critics and urged local voters to choose leaders wisely in the next General Election. In Kakamega and Kericho counties, residents crossed over into the new year 2017 in style, amid celebrations in places of worship and entertainment spots. MAINTAIN PEACE At the Kericho Tea Hotel, Kericho Governor Paul Chepkwony and his Deputy Susan Kikwai led more than 3,000 people at the meeting dubbed the “Kericho Amani Concert” in vowing to maintain peace during this year’s elections. Prof Chepkwony, who was one of the main sponsors of the event, said his administration would put in place all measures necessary to ensure that Kericho remained peaceful throughout the election period. In Kakamega, there was little pomp in social places as residents of trooped to churches for prayers to usher in the New Year. Unlike in past festivities, families joined friends and relatives in prayers in various churches. County police boss Mr Tito Kilonzi said the festivities went on smoothly in the twelve sub-counties. In his New Year message, Mumias Anglican Diocese Bishop Beneah Salala Okumu asked Kenyans to embrace and promote peace as the country heads for elections in August. “The tension witnessed during political campaigns is unacceptable,” he said in a sermon at the Bishop Hannington ACK Cathedral in Mumias. The same message of peace was relayed by Bishop Samuel Manyonyi, the national vice chairman of Alliance of Registered Churches of Kenya, who asked Kenyans the maintain peace during campaigns. Imam Hamza Ismail of the Jamia mosque in Mumias asked politicians to put the interest of Kenyans first to avoid driving the country into violence. In Mombasa, Governor Hassan Joho was among leaders who were entertained by popular Tanzanian artiste Ali Kiba as they welcomed the New Year at Flamingo Beach Hotel in Mombasa. Also present at the concert was Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi. FIREWORKS LIT THE SKY The Bongo flava superstar took to the stage shortly after midnight when fireworks lit the sky at the Beach Resort as the governors and hotel guests welcomed the New Year in style. At Sarova Whitesands Beach Resort, Murang’a Governor Mwangi wa Iria and Mombasa Senator Hassan Omar were among guests who were treated to a special New Year’s Eve dinner. More than 800 guests, who had gathered at the popular resort, were entertained by a live band and dancers. Australian tourist Jack Goodrich took the opportunity to make a marriage proposal to his girlfriend Chandni Kantaria. According to the hotel’s general manager Raj Jadhav, Sh8 million was spent on the special dinner for the guests, entertainment, decorations and the fireworks. In Naivasha, residents ushered in the New Year in style, with some opting to attend church services while others celebrated the occasion on the shores of Lake Naivasha Most of the churches were full, with sermons and gospel music taking centre stage. A Catholic faithful Juliet Kanyi who walked to the church accompanied by her son, said she had made a personal commitment to attend church service every New Year’s eve. “I find it more fulfilling ushering the New Year in the house of worship. This time round it was not different,” she said. Naivasha deputy commissioner Isaac Masinde said no ugly incidents were reported, during the festivities. In Nyeri, Former President Mwai Kibaki was among faithful who turned up for Sunday service yesterday at Our Lady of Consolata Cathedral Church in Nyeri to celebrate the New Year. Presiding over the mass, Fr Boniface Wandefu prayed for peace in the country as it prepares for elections. He also dissuaded leaders from preaching hate and instead be the source of unity rather than political division among Kenyans.   President faults mass action calls by the Opposition as Cord leaders vow to defeat Jubilee.