Curriculum reform has dominated public discourse for some time now because of the acute concern that the current education system may not be offering the desired outcomes. Various studies by, among others, the Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development (KICD), have shown major deficiencies of the current curriculum, giving compelling justification for its review. It is on this basis that the Ministry of Education set up a National Task Force on Curriculum Review last year to spearhead change with technical guidance of KICD. Issues of concern are access, quality, management, assessment and learning outcomes. Thus far, the task force and KICD have developed a structure and policy framework anchored on competency learning. At the core of the new curriculum is a system where learners acquire skills and attributes to enable them to do things rather than cram and regurgitate facts. The school cycle will be redefined with the primary level being reduced to six years from the current eight and specialisation introduced at senior secondary school, allowing learners to pursue courses in their areas of interest and competence. Even more dramatic is a proposal to change the mode of assessment from the current exam orientation at the end of primary and secondary cycles to continuous testing known in education circles as formative assessment. The proposed reforms are bound to have far-reaching ramifications in the socio-economic landscape and require public discussion. Today, the ministry has convened a national conference in Nairobi to give the public a chance to interrogate the proposals. Experts are expected to outline the details and explain how the changes ought to be implemented. Education review is both a professional and political engagement. Today’s public engagement is, therefore, an important point for interaction among all the players to develop consensus and chart the way forward. Curriculum reform is imperative and the time is ripe to conclude the discussions and begin the implementation.  