The New Year has started on a rather bleak note, especially with election politics taking over every aspect of life, and polarisation becoming the norm. One can understand the kind of frustration bred by unfulfilled expectations that often leads to such a situation, but apparently, there is no help for it. In fact, in this climate, politics is a difficult thing to ignore. However, one can only hope that the looming natural calamity will be exempt from the political power-play that obscures almost everything else in this country. The rains have failed again, and very soon, there will be very little food or clean drinking water unless a miracle happens in the next few weeks. However, that kind of thinking would be idle, for the age of miracles is over. A walk in the rural areas where subsistence farming seems to be the only economic activity indicates that there will be no harvest to talk about this season. The maize in the small shambas has prematurely wilted and can only be good for animal feed. There will be no legumes either, and the few potatoes that will have withstood the drought will help only those creatures that live under the soil. Already, food is in short supply and the prices have started going through the roof. In short, this country will experience widespread hunger, and in areas that are already stricken, the famine will be acute. One can only hope the government has made contingency plans to seek food early, for starvation can be a very potent weapon. Earlier this week, NTV came up with a report on the reasons why water will have to be rationed in Nairobi and its environs in the next few months. The reason they gave is that the level of water in the dams that supply the city has dropped drastically, the most affected being Ndakaini in Murang’a. But this really is not news, for it has often happened before. What is, perhaps, new is the explanation given by the city water authorities — climate change. While this phenomenon has become a reality worldwide and the signs are all around us, it still does not explain why this country has always suffered water-stress or why it is always so vulnerable to food insecurity. It also does not tell us what successive governments have done about it. It is clear that we have failed to address issues that could mitigate the negative effects of climate change for the sake of the country’s future. Measures like planting trees, eschewing cultivation on water-beds, and ensuring that wells and boreholes are not dug haphazardly may not be politically sexy, but they can go some way towards ensuring the country’s survival in the long term. It is a fact that matters environmental do not win many votes, which is perhaps the reason why successive governments have never given them higher priority. However, in more ways than one, this kind of thinking is not only short-term but myopic. This is why we should not rely totally on politicians to tell us where to go on this issue. Drought is a natural phenomenon. Nevertheless, it is not easy to understand why there is so little emphasis on rain-harvesting and other measures that do not require too much investment capital. Instead, we seem to be emphasising on building dams as though that in itself was the cure. How do you become excited about digging dams when there is no water in the first place? The other issue that has always bedevilled us is the periodic food shortage. There is no doubt that reliance on rain-fed agriculture is to blame, which is why the government ought to be putting emphasis on the kind of technology that will ensure food grows all year round without depleting the little water available. My plea to experts is to tell us where to go on these issues and to do so in a language the majority of Kenyans can understand. Prof Wangari Maathai told us why trees are important in our lives and she was persecuted for it. But as soon as she left us, we forgot her teachings. It is time another scholar took up the mantle and taught us where we are going wrong with our land-use methods, why the long rains are eluding us, and why the short rains are turning into mild showers. andrewngwiri@gmail.com  