Coalition for Reforms and Democracy (Cord) leader Raila Odinga has asked Coast residents to register as voters in large numbers so as to send him to State House in the August 8 General Election. Speaking on the second day of his voter registration mobilisation tour of Kwale and Mombasa counties, the Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) party leader pleaded with his supporters, saying: “I don’t want you to let me down because the outcome of August 8 elections will be determined by the ongoing voter registration.” He added: “We will be home and dry if all of you are registered as voters and ensure you vote during elections.” The former Prime Minister spoke at Caltex grounds in Likoni, Mombasa. He addressed several rallies in Kombani, Ukunda, in Kwale, where he expressed confidence that he will get the numbers and form the next government. He told his supporters to give him the confidence to tell President Uhuru Kenyatta that he should be prepared to hand over power peacefully after August 8. “This time, that ‘Tyranny of numbers’ will be on my side,” said Mr Odinga, who described as a great disappointment a low turnout in the six Coast counties in the first week of the mass voter registration. The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) statistics show only 78,024 new voters were registered in the region. Mr Odinga urged residents to mobilise each other in villages and towns and ensure everyone is registered and ready to cast the ballot. Mombasa Governor Hassan Ali Joho, the ODM deputy party leader, echoed the sentiments, saying Mr Odinga’s victory in August will prepare him to contest for the presidency in 2022. “We should now stop being a crowd cheering our party leader but be his brigades to ensure he enters State House after August elections,” said Mr Joho. “That is only possible if we move out and ensure we are registered as voters in large numbers.” Mr Odinga challenged those who had not collected their national identity cards from the Registrar of Persons’ offices to do so and immediately use them to register as voters. He told Coast residents only a Cord or National Super Alliance (Nasa) government could resolve their decades-old land question, saying the Jubilee government was “complicit and dishonest” on the issue. “Instead of issuing genuine title deeds, they dished out fake ones,” said Mr Odinga. “This is not my creation but a ruling of our court recently. “Do you trust such people to address the land problem that had been with you since Arab, British and post-Independence governments?” Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi lashed out at his Kwale counterpart Salim Mvurya for joining Jubilee, saying his move will not contribute to the development of that county. “My county receives a larger allocation than Kwale and other Coast counties yet I am a biggest critic of the Jubilee government,” said Mr Kingi. Kwale Senator Juma Boy also criticised Mr Mvurya. FAIR NOMINATIONS Mr Odinga promised that losers in party primaries will be offered jobs should the Oppositions clinch victory on August 8. “We will have fair party nominations for every one vying for various posts in Cord. We will repeat the nomination process until everyone is satisfied and eventually we expect both losers and winners to work together for the party,” said Mr Odinga at Maasai ground in Ukunda. He added: “We will ensure those who will loss nominations will be given jobs in our government because there are many jobs in any new governments. If you are eyeing to be a Governor and you lose the nomination…that is not the only job meant for you.” Echoing similar sentiments, Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho said the party has no agenda of imposing leaders on the electorate but will ensure everyone is subjected to nomination processes and only winners issued with party tickets. He challenged various aspirants to stop wrangling over nomination process saying everyone should campaign peacefully and wait to go through the nomination exercise. Mr Odinga and Mr Joho made the assurance after various aspirants in Kwale County called for fair and free party nomination that they said its outcome will determine Mr Odinga’s victory in the August elections. The Party County Chairman Sheikh Amir Banda told Mr Odinga that there was restlessness within the party over the fairness of the forthcoming nomination exercise. “Our Party leader, your victory will be highly determined by the nomination process and we want you to assert yourself on the issue,” said Sheikh Banda. Kwale County Assembly Speaker Sammy Ruwa, Ambassador Chirau Mwakwere, Dr Issa Chipera, Mr Mwarapayo Mwachai and Mr Gereza Dena are among Kwale county governorship aspirants eyeing the ODM ticket. Nominated MP Zuleikha Hassan and former nominated councilor Ms Fatuma Masito are leading ODM candidates for woman representative. And Mr Odinga, who paraded all the aspirants before him during his two rallies in Ukunda and Kombani areas in Kwale during voter registration, urged them to battle it out peacefully when the party nominations will be conducted and later losers and winners work as strong team for him in his Presidential ambition.  