Election time for Kenyans is clearly not just about choosing the next set of representatives to lead the nation. It is in fact just as much about dealing with unfinished business from the past as planning for future generations. Two successive disputed elections mean that every move to prepare for this year’s ballot is contested, disputed and treated with suspicion by one or both sides. The battle lines are drawn and the first victim as always is truth. Last month the row was about the printing of ballot papers. Now attention focuses on machines and technology, or the lack of it. In a bizarre twist, the so-called digital team are opting for manual elections, while those deemed analogue are pitching all their hopes on electronic transmission of votes as a guarantee for a fair ballot. You are more likely, then, to hear campaign meetings focus on stolen ballots, the Supreme Court ruling and, of course, the ICC than on manifestos that provide new hope for the enfranchised but impoverished masses. The other recurrent theme, of course, is whether this is the most corrupt regime since independence. Corruption is on everyone’s tongue but no one is serious about fighting the cancer since some are currently at the trough while others want to ensure that their turn to eat with impunity is still in place by September. While Cord and Jubilee have the potential to put the country to war, one would, however, expect that the rule of law and the nation’s institutions would provide the stability, integrity and independence to guide the nation through the tough election period. That is, after, all what the quest for a new Constitution was about. But here exactly is the root of the problem. There are as many questions and doubts surrounding the IEBC secretariat as about former and future commissioners. The Supreme Court would appear not an option that Cord would resort to in another disputed ballot, while the police service lack the professionalism, discipline, training and accountability that the reform process had promised. Where, then, does one turn to in times of crisis? So while politicians squabble and protest about one or other issue, underneath there is a huge deficit of trust and confidence in the institutions established to provide a level playing field and a just outcome. This is the crux of the matter that must be addressed in the coming months. The first step then must be for all players to acknowledge the trust deficit and commit themselves to addressing it together with immediate effect. Ultimately, everyone benefits from a fair process. Everyone loses in a repeat of 2007. Can everyone accept that as the starting point? Time, however, is not on our side. Delaying the election may be an option if the extended period is a productive time of genuine dialogue and trust building between the political class and the relevant institutions. To kick start that requires the emergence of a facilitating team of neutral but capable and respected people who will win the trust of everyone. There are many Kenyans who can fit the bill. All it requires is initiative and good will and prayers, of course. gdolan54@gmail.com. @GabrielDolan1  