Nairobi Governor’s seat aspirant Peter Kenneth has challenged his opponents in the Jubilee Party to stop abusive politics but to instead tell residents their development plans. Speaking at the Kayole PCEA church during a Sunday service, the former Gatanga MP said hate politics will not make anybody to be elected as the Governor of Nairobi. “For the sake of our Jubilee Party, we need to be seen speaking to each other rather than speaking against each other,” he said Mr Kenneth is seeking to win the Jubilee ticket to run as the Nairobi governor against Senator Mike Sonko, Bishop Margaret Wanjiru, Dagoretti South MP Dennis Waweru and nominated MP M Johnson Sakaja. The Sonko camp has since dismissed the one time presidential hopeful, warning him to keep off Nairobi politics. Mr Kenneth, who told the Sonko-led group that he is not interested in abusive politics, asked them to focus on uniting the party. Mr Kenneth also refuted claims that he had offered to pay Nairobi Senator Mike Sonko to step down from the governor’s race. “Why would I pay or bribe someone to step down… bribe itself is a crime. It is the people of Nairobi who will choose their leaders,” he said. He has promised to initiate development projects in the city if elected and get a solution to water shortage in the capital among other issues. “In 2013, Nairobi residents elected Governor Evans Kidero to manage the city, but they never got a good manager who is keen at bringing developments and that’s why we have poor sewerage systems all over and our roads are pathetic. I want to turn Nairobi into the once clean city that we had years ago,” he said. He asked those who are yet to register as voters to do so to ensure they vote for Jubilee. Mr Kenneth was accompanied by several city MPs among the Embakasi North MP James Mwangi Gakuyu, John Ndirangu Kariuki (Embakasi Central), Waihenya Ndirangu (Roysambu North), nominated senator Beatrice Elachi, senatorial aspirant Mutinda Kavemba, a number of Nairobi MCAs and aspirants seeking various political seats in the city. The Jubilee aspirants said they are supporting Mr Kenneth and will not allow hate politics. Roysambu MP Mr Ndirangu told citizens not to listen to lies of aspirants who are spreading lies about Mr Kenneth by calling him a non-resident.   Cracks emerge in Jubilee as two camps differ over selection criteria.