Harambee Stars Coach Stanley Okumbi and captain Victor Wanyama on Friday exuded confidence Kenya will qualify for the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations, despite being pooled with Ghana, Ethiopia and Sierra Leone. Harambee Stars have missed Africa’s biggest football tournament since Tunisia in 2004, and will again watch from the sidelines as minnows Guinea-Bissau, who eliminated Kenya in the qualifiers, take on hosts Gabon in this year’s opening match from 7pm on Saturday night. Wanyama, of English Premier League giants Tottenham Hotspur, however, emphasized the need for early preparations including scouting of opponents. Jesse Were, meanwhile, believes qualification can be all but assured if Stars win all their three home games, and manage to squeeze another win and draw on the road. From the draw held in Gabon on Thursday night, Stars will have to defeat continental heavyweights Ghana, east African rivals Ethiopia and Sierra Leone, to play at the 2019 finals in Cameroon for the first time in 15 years. These four teams have been pooled in Group F. “There is no easy or difficult draw,” Okumbi reflected. “My main focus is to prepare the team so that as a country we are able to compete with what you would arguably say are some of the best footballing nations on the continent.” Said Wanyama: “You know in such a competition there is very little margin for error”. 'CRUEL SURPRISES' He said: “In the past we have not been studying our opponents that much and this leaves room for some cruel surprises. I know the current coaches have already addressed this matter which will give us a better chance of qualification”. Kenya has consistently flopped against West African opposition in international meetings. Harambee Stars are not in Gabon and so when there will be discussion one day many, many years from now, about which player produced those most magical moments in this current generation, Kenyan players will be missing from the narrative. We could have included the rest of east Africa in this list of countries whose players will not be worthy of special mention soon, but our neighbours Uganda already got themselves out of the rut. Uganda are in Gabon, ready and determined to fight it out against Africa’s best. This, after close to four decades of just coming close and not making it. And for their efforts they were recognised as the best national team in 2016 at the Glo Caf Awards on January 5. Already, goalkeeper Dennis Masinde Onyango is on many fans’ lips. First for winning the African Best Player’s Award in the Caf Footballer of the Year awards earlier this month, helping Uganda qualify for Afcon and his stellar performance for South African club Mamelodi Sundowns who are the reigning African Champions League champions. Just like that, Onyango has joined the exclusive club of African football legends and depending on how he performs in the competition, he could be the most memorable footballer East Africa has ever produced in recent times. OUTRANKS HIM This despite the fact that Wanyama, now a favourite at Spurs, outranks him in terms of global popularity, wealth, and perhaps skill. Musa Otieno, who was captain when Kenya last qualified for the Africa Cup of Nations competition, concurs that Kenya’s continued absence from major tournaments is a point of concern. “It obviously needs to change. When we were at Afcon in 2004 my team mates and I believed that Kenya would make it to many more editions even though the level of competition was very high. “That we go for more than 10 years without getting to another edition was unthinkable at that time and it is sad that the situation still persists,” said Harambee Stars assistant coach. A chat with the continent’s most experienced journalists reveals that Otieno is the one of Kenya’s best known footballer of recent times, together with Dennis Oliech. Both were part of the squad that did duty in Tunisia during the 2004 Afcon. You realise that when people go off talking about the magical moments produced by the likes of Roger Milla, Abedi Pele, Rigobert Song, Didier Drogba and Samuel Eto’o, they judge them first by their contribution to their respective national teams and their club honours second? At least Otieno, Oliech and the other 20 players made their name nationally, continentally and internationally by simply qualifying for the Nations Cup, a privilege that only 16 nations enjoy per edition.  