The Kenya African National Union (Kanu) has distanced itself from remarks made by its secretary General Nick Salat during the Opposition’s conference at the Bomas of Kenya on Wednesday. The party’s national executive Council member Zipporah Kittony, termed Mr Salat’s statements as personal and do not reflect the position of the party on the matter of an election coalition. West Pokot senator John Lonyangapuo has also dismissed Mr Salat’s sentiments terming them personal views. Mr Salat joined opposition leaders and their supporters when they converged at Bomas of Kenya to unveil the National Super Alliance (Nasa). He announced that Kanu had already joined Nasa and together with other like-minded parties, it is determined to remove Jubilee from power. He was among five leaders who signed the resolutions made by thousands of Nasa supporters during the historic event read by Siaya Senator James Orengo. Others who signed were Cord principals Raila Odinga (ODM), Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper), Moses Wetang’ula (Ford Kenya) and Amani National Congress (ANC) party leader Musalia Mudavadi. But in a statement, Mrs Kittony said Kanu policies and decisions are guided by the party’s constitution which stipulates that such a decision must first be discussed by the National Delegates Conference (NDC). “Since the party has not convened the NDC as per the constitution to deliberate on this particular matter, the remarks by the secretary-general are therefore not official as they have not been subjected to the internal constitutional processes for ratification,” said Mrs Kittony. However, she said that Kanu supports the idea in its formative stage of opposition unity. “The resolve by opposition leaders to field one presidential candidate is a milestone for Kenya's growing democracy,” said Mrs Kittony. It is not the first time some Kanu leaders were distancing themselves from moves made by Mr Salat. Last year, he joined Coalition for Reforms and Democracy (Cord) principals and supporters in protesting on the streets to force IEBC commissioners out of office. Mogotio MP and member of the party Hellen Sambili would then decline nomination to a special parliamentary team on electoral reforms.  