The family of missing lawyer Simon Lilan is asking the government to help them find him. Mr Lilan’s father, 80-year-old Henry Kiptalam, told the Sunday Nation that all the family wanted is to see their kin whether dead or alive. “All we want is to see our beloved one who has been the breadwinner to this family and that will make me a happy man,” said Mr Kiptalam. Mzee Kiptalam, the father of eight children who received the news of his second born son’s disappearance on January 11 with grief, appealed to the government to aid in searching and investigations since it has machinery to do so. “As a family we are very worried about the whereabouts of our son. We do not have any means to track him and this is why we are asking the government to please help us find him,” he pleaded. When Sunday Nation team visited Lilan’s home in Kaptagat, it was all deserted as his wife and children had been taken to her parents’ for fear of what would happen to them. The only people present in the homestead were the house help and Lilan’s grandmother. The vocal advocate Lilan came under the spotlight when he sought to stop the burial of former Nominated MP Mark Too until the actual cause of his death was established before he could be buried. Mr Lilan claimed that his life was in danger, saying some powerful people wanted to eliminate him after he claimed that Mr Too was assassinated. His elder brother and chauffeur, Mr John Talam was the last person to see the advocate in Eldoret town before he went missing in action. “My brother Lilan recently told me that some people have been calling him seeking a meeting with him and he had expressed [that his life was in danger]. Now as a family we are worried what might have happened to him because we don’t know where he is,” said Mr Talam. He said he reported the matter to the Eldoret Police Station, where the case was recorded under Occurrence Book. “I have been trying to call him, all his colleagues have been trying to call him, even those who have been helping him in politics have been trying to call him but we have not been able to find him and this is a very big worry to us,” he said.  