As the alarm bells over a looming drought ring in Kilifi County, I am finding it hard to imagine that people in this resource-rich place could actually starve to death. Anyone driving through the county from Mtwapa to Malindi will see that there are coconut, mango and cashewnut trees everywhere, trees that apparently grew spontaneously, without any human intervention. There are also neem and moringa trees, whose leaves are known to have medicinal value, and, which are touted as “miracle” trees that can cure almost every ailment. Kilifi is not without fresh water either. As you drive further north towards Mambrui, there is the Sabaki River, whose water flows freely into the Indian Ocean during the rainy season, unhindered by any irrigation scheme. The food insecurity problem in Kilifi County is not because nature was not kind to the county or because the local population does not know how to climb a tree to pluck a mango or coconut, but because there has been little investment in increasing agricultural productivity in the area. Yet the area around Malindi was once known for its agricultural prosperity. The majority of smallholder farmers (those lucky enough to own land, as a significant number of the people here are squatters) rely on the rain for their harvests. For those who do not own land, there are few sources of income, apart from tourism, that can allow them to participate in the local economy. If you drive into the interior off the main Malindi-Mombasa highway and towards the sea, you will find communities that eke out a Stone Age existence, living in mud and stick shacks with no water or electricity. SAD SIGHTMore than 50 years after independence there are people in this county that have never been to school (No wonder witchcraft and secessionist movements are in rife in the region). As you drive around the county, you will see hardly any large-scale farms or factories producing cashewnuts, or turning mango pulp into juice or even converting dried-up coconut shells into products such as furniture. Apart from the sisal factory in Vipingo, there is no sign of any kind of industrial-scale activity in the area. I am told that during the Moi era a cashewnut factory was decimated for stupid political reasons, but we have had three governments since then and yet the area remains as unindustrialised as ever. Many people I have talked to say that there have been attempts to build small-scale industries in the area, but many of these projects were either donor-funded or dependent on one individual; when the donor funds dried up or when the individual died, the factory shut down. I recently visited one such project that produces moringa oil and powder. While the initiative is laudable, as it provides an income to up to 300 local farmers, and even exports moringa oil, I did wonder about its sustainability as it relies on funds donated by a rich foundation based in the United States. Manufacturing is the key to economic growth, but for some reason the people of Kilifi County have been made to believe that their salvation lies in being service-providers to tourists, not in entrepreneurship or industry. In many of my columns I have complained about sex tourism in Malindi, and how much it angers me to see young women, girls and beach boys selling their bodies and souls to ageing foreigners. MY AGENDA But then what other choice do these young people have? What alternative sources of income are available to them? There are no factories in Malindi, or good quality universities or polytechnics that can absorb the brightest among them, and give them skills that they can use to make far more money than they can make through prostitution. If I was the governor of Kilifi County, I would commission a feasibility study of all the potential industries that can be established in the county using the county’s natural resources, whether it be orange and lemon orchards, mango pickle factories or a pharmaceutical company producing moringa products. I would then encourage and enable investors to come to Kilifi and set up factories. But since I am not the governor, all I can say is that it is a shame that one of the most resource-rich counties in the country is also among the poorest. And may continue to be so, despite devolution. rasna.warah@gmail.com  