President Uhuru Kenyatta on Thursday kicked off a voter registration awareness campaign that will take him across the country by urging Kenyans, particularly the youth, to register in large numbers. The President said by registering as voters, the youth will have a direct say in determining their future by electing leaders they feel would cater for their interests. He spoke in Murang’a County as State House announced a revision in his schedule. After Murang’a, the President will in the next seven days visit Isiolo, Meru, Samburu, Garissa, Kitui, Marsabit and Kajiado, before returning to Nairobi next week. “The only way for you to ensure the leaders of your choice get elected in the coming elections is by registering as a voter. "That will enable you to take part in shaping the future of this country,” President Kenyatta urged the youth at Kandara, one of his stops on the first day.   He also flagged off a truck that will do road shows across the country to drum up support for voter registration. He emphasised that registration was the only instrument available to ensure that a people participated in electing their leaders, rather that complain about performance. He also asked the relevant government department to ensure that the youth across the country are issued with national identity cards so that they can register as voters.   Saying the electorate will decide the leaders they want, President Kenyatta said there were no preferred candidates in the Jubilee Party. “All aspirants vying for the Jubilee Party ticket will be accorded equal opportunity and wananchi will have the final say on which candidate will fly the party’s flag in their area,” he said. He asked aspirants to embrace peace when campaigning. “As you go out to seek votes, do not divide Kenyans or incite the youth to fight. Kenya are smart people and they will elect leaders based on their commitment to development,” he said. President Kenyatta also chatted with the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission officials to check on the progress of the voter registration exercise.    