The widow of former International Criminal Court witness Meshack Yebei is fighting for her life in hospital after she was attacked by armed gangsters this morning. Lilian Yebei was attacked by a gang that broke into her Langas home in Eldoret at 3.30am. She suffered deep cuts in her head and was admitted to Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital in Eldoret. According to Samson Kinne, Uasin Gishu Police County Commandant, four gangsters gained entry into the compound after scaling down the concrete wall which is reinforced with razor wire fence before breaking into the two-bedroom house. ATTEMPTED ROBBERY “We have not established the actual motive of the attack but we suspect to be attempted robbery,” said Mr Kinne. Peter Kemboi, a caretaker, said the attackers escaped with her phone. The thugs took off after the neighbours raised alarm. Mr Kemboi said police officers who arrived at the compound took away a jacket that was left behind by the gangsters. “The widow had just moved in two weeks ago and is staying with her three children,” added Mr Kemboi. The widow, the caretaker said had raised alarm that some strangers were stalking her. STALKED BY STRANGERS “For the last two weeks she has been here some unknown people have visited the compound and claimed to know the widow. They however did not tell us why they were looking for her,” said Mr Kemboi. He said two people on a motorbike and a young man who claimed to be supplying Ms Yebei with milk visited the compound a few days ago and asked her whereabouts. “We do not know exactly why unknown people have been inquiring about the widow yet she was just a new tenant who had not interacted with many of us,” said Titus Kimutai, another caretaker at the estate. Ms Yebei’s brother-in-law Daniel Yebei described her condition as stable and expressed doubts on the cause of the attack. “Although she suffered deep head injuries, doctors have given her condition a good bill of health and we expect her to be discharged soon,” said Mr Yebei in an interview with the Nation at the hospital. NO THREATS TO HER LIFE According to Mr Yebei, they had a family meeting two weeks ago and his sister-in-law did not express any fears on her life. Uasin Gishu ODM politician, Kipkorir Menjo is among leaders and relatives who visited Mrs Yebei in hospital. “We were last together during the Western Kenya ODM conference in Kakamega and she was jovial. Police should conduct thorough investigations into the motive of the attack and have the suspects made to face the law,” said Mr Menjo Mr Yebei, a father of three, went missing on December 28, 2014 while he and his wife, had taken their sick child to Turbo Dispensary in Uasin Gishu County. He was due to testify at the ICC against the deputy president, William Ruto, and former Radio journalist Joshua Arap Sang who were accused by the court of crimes against humanity in connection with the 2007/2008 post-election violence in which at least 1,00 people died and 650,000 were displaced. CRITICAL ICC WITNESS His mutilated body was found in Tsavo National Park, three days after his disappearance. Following Yebei’s mysterious disappearance in December 2014, Mr Ruto’s lawyer Karim Khan described him as a “critical” witness for the defence. Mr Khan wrote to the Directorate of Criminal Investigations boss Ndegwa Muhoro seeking a speedy investigation into Yebi’s the presumed death. Prosecutor Fatou Bensouda's case against Mr Ruto and Mr Sang collapsed in April 2016.   Judges decided by a majority that the case against DP Ruto and Mr Sang be terminated.