Foreign envoys in Kenya have called for a credible General Election in August, two days after a new electoral commission took office as leading political players intensified campaigns to boost voter registration. The 25 ambassadors and high commissioners said in a joint statement on Saturday that mishandling the process is likely to reignite the sort of violence witnessed in 2007-2008 when a dispute between PNU presidential candidate Mwai Kibaki and ODM’s Raila Odinga almost drove the country into civil conflict. “Fair competition will strengthen Kenya’s reputation as a beacon of democracy in Africa. However, if these elections do not reflect the democratic choices of Kenyans, they could bring the country’s progress to a halt or plunge it back into ethnic conflict,” the diplomats said. The envoys, including United States Ambassador Robert Godec, his European Union counterpart Stefano Dejak, the United Kingdom’s Nic Hailey, German envoy Jutta Frasch, France’s Antoine Sivan and Ms Sara Hradecky of Canada, said the election is critical to Kenya’s future. “Free, fair, peaceful, and credible elections will help secure the extraordinary promise of the 2010 Constitution, strengthen democracy, and advance prosperity for all Kenyans.  As partners, we stand with Kenya as it approaches these pivotal polls. And, as fellow democracies, we know that while democracy is the best form of government, it also requires constant nurturing and attention.” INCLUSIVE DISCOURSE They also asked the two levels of government (national and county), political parties, security agencies and all Kenyans to embrace inclusive political discourse while rejecting violence at all times to enable the country come out of the election stronger. “Political parties have a responsibility to hold their members accountable to pursuing peaceful, issue-based, and corruption-free campaigns. “Similarly, political leaders are at their best when they support the rule of law, commit to credible polls, refrain from misusing public resources in support of their election, and turn to the courts to resolve any disputes. While all citizens have a right to peaceful protest, no one has the right to threaten or use violence.” Other missions that signed the document are Denmark, The Netherlands, Switzerland, Finland, Belgium, Greece, Ireland, Romania, Spain, Poland, Australia, Norway, Sweden, Austria, Czech Republic, Hungary, Italy, Slovak Republic and Portugal. The envoys backed the approval of the new commissioners of the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) and called on all Kenyans to support them to ensure they preside over a credible election. They also urged the commission to be transparent in its operations as a way of fostering public trust. “Each step of the way, we encourage the IEBC to engage widely and communicate publicly what it is doing.” WAS REJECTED Seven IEBC commissioners including the Chairman Wafula Chebukati were sworn into office on Friday after the previous team that oversaw the last General Election was rejected by the Opposition. On Saturday, Jubilee Party leaders accused the opposition of sounding war drums ahead of the election. “The Opposition knows they are losing this election and have started preparing their supporters psychologically to reject the results. How else do you explain their wild allegations that their identification numbers were being used to register other voters illegally?” Majority Leader in the National Assembly Aden Duale said. Mr Duale said Jubilee had faith in IEBC to deliver credible polls. Sentiments by Mr Odinga 10 days ago at the Bomas of Kenya, a meeting attended by all leading opposition figures, have been interpreted in Jubilee quarters as incitement to violence although, to his supporters, it is the kind of assurance they want to hear from him moving forward. “Yes Jubilee will try to steal the elections. But we shall not allow it. We shall make it impossible for anyone to steal the election. But we are also sending word to Jubilee again that the cost of stealing this election will be regrettable. Don’t try it,” Mr Odinga said. HOLD ACCOUNTABLE Other than a robust media, the ambassadors underscored the need for an active civil society, saying the groups help hold governments accountable. And with increasing space in the social media, the heads of mission called for responsible journalism and dissemination of information as “the propaganda stage” associated with elections sets in. “Effective democracies depend not just on government agencies, but on non-governmental institutions as well.  A free media has a critical role to play as a watchdog, providing balanced coverage, and refraining from promoting messages that incite violence.” President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Government has faced serious accusations of attempting to gag media freedom through enacting of punitive laws. The envoys said robust competition, almost always accompanied by heated debate, should never be allowed to degenerate into political violence. “It means building strong institutions and a deep commitment to our Constitutions, whether written or unwritten. It means an unwavering commitment by everyone to democracy, the rule of law, and credible election processes.  And, it means ensuring that vigorous – and even divisive – political competition does not descend into bloodshed, but instead results in the peaceful transfer of power or a renewed mandate for the incumbent government.” ANY SIDE They further cautioned the security forces against siding with any side of the political divide during and after the election. “Security services, meanwhile, have a vital role in protecting the rights of all Kenyans, remaining politically neutral and respecting human rights, including during political demonstrations,” they said. The message to the security forces comes barely a week after President Kenyatta unveiled 525 vehicles, including 25 armoured personnel carriers, at Uhuru Park in Nairobi. The government says the vehicles are part of the government’s normal police modernisation programme but some have claimed they would come in handy in the event of post-election violence. The diplomats also added their voice to the clamour by the political class to have those not enlisted as voters to do so, asking them to come out and vote on election day. The statement came just a day after the US, the world’s most influential nation, witnessed a peaceful transition following the election of Republican President Donald Trump, a controversial figure whose election in November, last year sparked off mass protests by supporters of his main challenger and former First Lady Hillary Clinton of teh Democratic Party. The envoys also announced a joint donation of Sh8.5 billion to aid preparations for the election, which is slated for August 8. 'PUBLICLY COMMITTED' “As partners, we have proudly and publicly committed to support the election process, all of it in the form of non-partisan assistance, and at the request of the Kenyan Government,” said. National Treasury allocated the IEBC Sh36.8 billion last year for the August polls against a request of Sh45 billion and the donation will serve to plug the hole. But, in their statement, the diplomats sought to allay concerns that they could be out to influence the election in a particular way. “Our assistance supports the Kenyan people to exercise their right to vote and have their voice heard. Kenyans alone will decide who is elected. All of our assistance is carried out transparently and in full accord with Kenyan law,” they said. The clarification follows remarks by President Kenyatta in his Jamhuri Day speech late last year that foreign governments were keen to instigate a regime change.  