1. Do people often ask you what it is like being a man in a predominantly female industry? People would ask that a lot when I started out, and a few still do. The society has become a bit more flexible now, and is getting to accept and get used to the unconventional. I should also point out that the owner of Madora, a feminine store, is a man. If you set your foot in a store like this one, your assumption could be as good as mine. 2. Is this your dream job? My dream job is to become part of the creation team for a makeup or perfume manufacturer like Chanel, Christian Dior, black|Up, YSL and Guerlain. Or, to become an international make-up artist trainer for these chains, hence my inspiration to work and grow with Madora, which stocks and works closely with such brands. 3. You have a dog called Zeus...why Zeus? Do you enjoy reading Greek mythology? Zeus is a cross-breed of the German Shepherd and a local breed. He has incredible strength in his shoulders/forefeet and jaws. That is why I called him Zeus. When he was four weeks old, he tore my Dockers (a brand of pants) to pieces. In Greek mythology, Zeus is the last-born child, and he overthrew his father to became one of the most powerful gods in the history of Greek mythology. And yes, I love reading books with beautiful captivating storylines. I enjoy reading sad and emotional epic stories too. 4. What do you do for fun? I cook, I write, I paint and I also love to take evening walks or jogs, sometimes with Zeus. 5. What do you think is the next frontier for Kenyan makeup artists? The world is coming to Africa. We’ve all seen it. The international multimillion cosmetic companies are venturing into the market. Madora is already here with those high-end designer brands we could only see in Vogue magazine back in the day. As a makeup artist, this is massive. Several couture fashion events are done here as well. Many films are also being shot in Kenya. Just recently, I worked with a South African 48-hour film project and the international series, Sense 8. These offer local makeup artists great opportunities to shine. I know of one of our own, actually my trainer and mentor, Muthoni Njoba, who did the 2016 London Fashion week. Another trainer of mine and friend, Suzie Wokabi, is internationally recognised. How beautiful is that? That’s a sign of a very bright future for makeup artists. __________  Hotspot Marula Mercantile, Marula Lane, Karen What I love most about Marula Mercantile is that the service is prompt. Three different waiters, and I believe the owner, asked me if I had been served, if the food was to my liking, if I was comfortable – there is nothing I appreciate better than conscientious service. And if there is, it is beautiful scenery – which almost tops service on my list, and MM has that as well. There is a gorgeous garden to look out to, where your kids can play in the sun. Oh, did I say I love their furniture? You can order meats and bread from their Facebook page – bacon, sausage, country wheat bread and burger buns, just to name a few. And the food was good as well – I wasn’t too crazy about my deep-fried fish, but the friends I was with raved about the soup, the fat delicious fries, the salad and the burger (we were hungry!). What I didn’t like so much was the state of the bathrooms, which were not at all commensurate to the scenic surroundings.  ****** Marula Mercantile, Marula Lane, Karen What I love most about Marula Mercantile is that the service is prompt. Three different waiters, and I believe the owner, asked me if I had been served, if the food was to my liking, if I was comfortable – there is nothing I appreciate better than conscientious service. And if there is, it is beautiful scenery – which almost tops service on my list. And MM has that as well. There is a gorgeous garden to look out to, where your kids can play in the sun. Oh, did I say I love their furniture? You can order meats and bread from their Facebook page – bacon, sausage, country wheat bread and burger buns, just to name a few. And the food was good as well. I wasn’t too crazy about my deep-fried fish, but the friends I was with raved about the soup, the fat delicious fries, the salad and the burger (we were hungry!). What I didn’t like so much was the state of the bathrooms, which were not at all commensurate to the scenic surroundings.    