A grieving Homeboyz will be seeking revenge against Impala when they face-off at Impala Sports Club in one of the mouth-watering Kenya Cup on Saturday. Victory for the Deejays will go a long way in soothing their hearts, having lost forward Andrew Wekesa, who was stabbed to death in an attack on Sunday in Machakos County. Impala beat the Deejays 42-39 in a close first leg match. Both teams are coming from morale boosting victories last Saturday where Homeboyz handed Kenya Harlequins their first defeat this season 15-20 while Impala edged out Strathmore Leos 29-14. “The best tribute you can give to such a good player is a good brand of rugby,” said Impala director of rugby Fred Ollows. “We are up to the challenge since we have our own tactical approach with effective defence and attack,” added Ollows. Resolution Health Impala have made some changes to their starting line up, bringing in hooker Kelvins Karani for David Ndolo, who move to the bench.Eric Kopondo comes to the bench replacing Tyson Okoth, who is committed with school work. Kenya Commercial Bank will look to consolidate their league table lead when they host University of Nairobi’s Mean Machine at Kenyatta University grounds. KCB won the first leg 49-8 and are coming from a vital 26-10 victory against Nondescripts last Saturday. Champions Kabras hosts Nakuru in one of the double header at Kakamega showgrounds. Kabras won the first leg in Nakuru 19-15. Nakuru will be eying to bounce back from previous 10-26 defeat by KCB while Kabras best Mwamba 39-32 in their last outing. Kabras and KCB are the only sides yet to concede this season. Westen Bulls also yearns for revenge against visiting Mwamba at the Kakamega Showgrounds. Bulls suffered 10-55 defeat during the first leg in Nairobi. Bulls hope to uphold their momentum, having beaten Machine 29-29 last weekend. Quins hopes to recover from the stunning defeat by Homeboyz when they host Nondies at the RFUEA grounds. KCB head Coach Curtis Olago is leaving nothibg to chances as he has picked a strong sqaud to face Machine. Some of the players in the squad are Jacob Ojee,  Darwin Mukidza, Collins Wanjala, Nick Ongeri, Oscar Simiyu and play maker Ken Moseti. “The squad is very compact and so far we are unstoppable, concentration is key and we are keen on reaping success in the coming matches”, said Olago. The principal change is new signing Ahmed Shaban who joins team for his first clash this season. FIXTURES KCB v Mean Machine (Kenyatta University, 2pm), Kabras Sugar v Nakuru (Kakamega Showground, 4pm), Western Bulls v Mwamba (Kakamega High School, 4pm), Impala Saracens v Homeboyz (Impala Club, 4pm), Quins v Nondescripts (RFUEA ground, 4pm), Blak Blad v Strathmore Leos (Kenyatta University, 4.15pm)  