Major Geoffrey Obwoge’s big heart, composure and love for his family are what they will never forget. He may have died during the deadly attack on El Adde base in Somalia but his generosity lives on in his home in Nyakororo, Bomachoge Borabu, Gucha sub-county. His father, Charles Obwoge, still misses his son. “I really miss my son. He was a special child that brought me so much joy ... I don’t know if I will ever learn to accept his demise,” says Mr Obwoge. At the age of 33, the soldier’s career was flourishing following his appointment to head the El Adde camp. It was, however, to abruptly end in a tragedy that will remain etched in the hearts of those he left behind. He was among the at least 100 soldiers thought to have been killed during the attack by al-Shabaab. But a year later, his home is a shining example of a family’s desire to forge ahead despite the loss of its most famous and successful son. The homestead boasts of two new homes, one of them built for the late soldier’s parents. A well is currently being dug in the homestead, with workmen busy on the project. When the Nation arrived at the home, Mr Zeddy Obwoge – a brother to the fallen soldier – was supervising the workmen. The young man says he misses his brother’s company, leadership skills and cheerfulness. OPTIMISTIC DEMEANOUR “I miss my brother’s calm, composed and optimistic demeanour. He was always focused on the future, making plans for projects like this one you see here,” he says, pointing towards the newly built houses. He promises to make sure all the projects by the late Obwoge are completed as the only way to repay his love for them. “Apart from some minor painting of the houses, the projects are complete,” he says. Although other family members have accepted the death of the soldier, Obwoge’s sister Rose is still struggling to recover. “My sister Rose has lost weight and has never regained her usual bubbly, talkative self after his death. She and Major were quite close. It is like a big part of her life was torn out of her,” his brother, Zeddy, says. Rose did not say much, only referring to her brother and parents as the ones who would speak during the interview. “I have cried and still cry for my brother. He was a hero and a friend I will never forget. Talking about him will bring the pain of my loss flooding back,” she said. Obwoge’s father says the family is in good terms with Rhoda Obwoge, Obwoge’s widow, a view echoed by his wife, Elizabeth. “She visits us often. In fact, she was here with her two children over the December holidays and returned to Eldoret where she works on December 23,” he says. The retired medic describes his daughter-in-law as hardworking, humble, committed and loving. “As is her habit, she called me last evening to inquire about our welfare. We are blessed indeed to have such a wonderful daughter.”  