Opposition leaders and their supporters converged on Bomas in Nairobi on Wednesday for the unveiling of an alliance of parties opposed to President Uhuru Kenyatta's Jubilee Party. They were expected to launch the proposed National Super Alliance (Nasa), on whose ticket the opposition seeks to uproot Mr Kenyatta from power. They, however, made a declaration that they are committed to forming a united opposition opposition whose main agenda would be to kick Jubilee from power. The opposition chiefs also said they have shelved planned protests over election laws signed by President Kenyatta. They said they will concentrate on mobilising their supporters to register as voters ahead of the August elections. Cord leader Raila Odinga said the move by the opposition to mobilise their supporters to register as voters is a protest in its own over an "inept government." "Defeating Jubilee is not about the opposition getting power, it is a civic duty," said Mr Odinga. Speaking at the meeting, Mr Wetang'ula, a Cord co-principal, said they will focus on their strongholds. “Our mass action will now become mass voter registration. We ask our supporters to go out and register,” he said. The Bomas meeting was expected to take a stand on the controversial election laws signed by President Kenyatta on Monday evening. SACRIFICE Mr Mudavadi, however, said they will hold protests after the voter registration exercise. “After the voter registration, we will go back to the streets against these (election) laws. The voter registration exercise will start on January 16. Mr Mudavadi said he has been fighting for a super alliance as only a united opposition can remove Jubilee from power. “I pray that the unity we have shown today is not a joke,” he said. Kalonzo Musyoka, the Wiper Party leader, said the August 8 election is crucial and that he is ready to “sacrifice” to ensure the oppositions wins. “I am ready to do it (sacrifice) again. This country is bigger than all of us,” he said. ELECTION LAWS Supporters of Raila Odinga's Orange Democratic Movement, Mr Musyoka's Wiper Party, Moses Wetang'ula's Ford Kenya, Musalia Mudavadi's Amani National Congress, Gideon Moi's Kanu, and Cyrus Jirongo's United Democratic Party (UDP) donned their respective party colours in the auditorium. Also in attendance were aspirants seeking to run on Nasa parties' tickets in the August elections. Their leaders, including Mr Mudavadi, Mr Wetang'ula, Kanu secretary-general Nick Salat and ODM deputy party leader Hassan Joho, declared their unity ahead of the elections. They also took a swipe at Mr Kenyatta's leadership, accusing his administration of grand corruption and mismanagement of the country. They called on Kenyans to vote out Jubilee and reclaim their country. BRISK TRADE Thousands of supporters, comprising elected leaders and those aspiring to contest on Nasa tickets, were asked to sign a petition the team said will voice their protest against the laws. Outside the auditorium, businesspeople had a field day selling merchandise as enthusiastic supporters sought to buy items branded in their respective party colours. The auditorium was full even before the party leaders arrived. The supporters sang and danced as they vowed that Nasa will be the vehicle for removing President Kenyatta from power.   This will be in bid to defeat President Uhuru Kenyatta in August General Election.