During the 2013 General Election, the South Rift united around then Eldoret North Member of Parliament William Ruto who at the time was facing Crimes against Humanity charges at the International Criminal Court. Together with then Deputy Prime Minister Uhuru Kenyatta who was facing a similar case at the ICC, Mr Ruto managed to rally sympathetic Kenyans behind them with a rallying call that they needed their support to defeat the cases which had threatened to tear down their political careers. The response was tremendous. Sympathetic voters in Kericho, Bomet and Narok voted for the Jubilee Alliance of Mr Kenyatta and Mr Ruto, who were eventually elected as President and Deputy President, respectively. But with the collapse of the ICC cases, the unity of the Kalenjin community has started to falter, posing a great challenge to Mr Ruto’s stranglehold in the South Rift voting bloc. The void has been exploited by parties including Kanu and Chama cha Mashinani (CCM) which is led by Bomet Governor Isaac Ruto. A number of aspirants who fear being rigged out in the Jubilee Party primaries in the South Rift are now considering Governor Ruto’s party as a viable option. With the party’s popularity rising beyond Bomet county, it has attracted nearly 40 aspirants in Kericho County alone and several others from neighbouring Nakuru and Narok counties. Kuresoi South MP Zakayo Cheruiyot and his Emurua Dikirr counterpart Johanna Ngeno, two most vocal supporters of Governor Ruto and fierce critics of the Deputy President, have been linked with CCM. PATRICK NTUTU Also believed to be considering defecting to the party are some MPs from Narok County, including Narok South MP Patrick Ntutu who is eyeing the Narok gubernatorial seat. Several Bomet county officials have also resigned to contest various seats on the CCM ticket. Mr Victor Koech is seeking to trounce Chepalungu MP Paul Bii of Jubilee Party while Ms Janet Korir will contest the Bomet East seat, Emily Sawe (Woman Rep) and Cosmas Korir (Konoin). Also using the ticket is Bomet Senate candidate, Dr Stephen Koskei and Mr Simon Korir eying the Narok South seat. Despite being less than a year old, CCM has rattled the political environment in the south rift owing mainly to the animated nature of campaigns by Governor Ruto who has been known to speak his mind and criticise the Jubilee government for allegedly not supporting devolution enough. When he opened CCM office in Sosiot town, Belgut Constituency in Kericho last weekend, Governor Ruto said his party had formed the government in Bomet and said Jubilee was the opposition party in Bomet. “For those who do not know, CCM is the ruling party in Bomet and Jubilee is in the opposition. I will do whatever is necessary to support the party’s aspirants to win seats across the South Rift. I will not allow anyone to coerce me into joining Jubilee as some people are trying to do,” he said. EVERY WARD The Bomet county boss said he would establish party offices in every ward in Kericho County and called on residents to support the party, saying it had been formed to replace the defunct United Republican Party which was dissolved to form the Jubilee Party last year. Kericho County CCM secretary David Rotich said that 38 aspirants had paid up all party fees to be allowed to run for the Kericho Senate, parliamentary and ward seats. He said the party had provided a “very strong” alternative to South Rift politicians who were afraid of going through botched nominations in Jubilee and would ride on a growing anti-Jubilee wave to win at least 20 county assembly seats in the county which has 30 wards. “CCM has become the party of refuge for many politicians in this county because people are aware there is a list of preferred candidates in Jubilee and that unless they are personally known to the Jubilee leadership they have no chance of winning the party primaries,” said Mr Rotich. However, Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen and Sotik MP Joyce Laboso said Jubilee remains the party to beat in the South Rift and dismissed analysts who think CCM will give Jubilee a headache in the South Rift. “Those who have moved to other parties are clearly fearing competition in Jubilee and are conceding defeat. The sheer number of the candidates eyeing Jubilee ticket is a testimony of what the party means to the region,” said Mr Murkomen. Dr Laboso said: “I don’t know where people get the idea that Jubilee is under threat. I wouldn’t want to undermine other parties, but the voters will soon prove wrong every Jubilee critic about its popularity in the region”.  