Governor Amason Kingi has told the government to be fair in the distribution of the Sh6 billion Equalisation Funds, noting some counties were being sidelined. The governor claimed that the national  government was frustrating devolution by “unlawfully” using the funds meant for disadvantaged counties for development. “Kilifi County was allocated Sh2 billion but surprisingly, the Jubilee government wants to use the funds to spearhead national government projects like tarmacking of Malindi-Sala Gate,” he said during the inspection of solar-powered Kambicha borehole and ground-breaking ceremony of Sh34 million Kambicha-Marereni-Kanagoni water project at Adu in Magarini on Friday. On March 11 last year, President Uhuru Kenyatta launched the Equalisation Fund in Isiolo to assist counties in the arid and semi-arid regions. Mr Kenyatta, who was accompanied by his deputy William Ruto, disclosed that each of the counties would receive between Sh185 million and Sh650 million this financial year. SEEKING POLITICAL MILEAGE Mr Kingi further asked the government to stop looking for political mileage from the Sh2.3 billion Magarini-Kilifi water project, saying its funds came from the World Bank loan. “I initiated the project when I was still the area MP through the CDF Kitty after Malindi Waters and Sewerage Company lacked funds to carry feasibility study,” he said adding that, “the loan shall be paid by Kilifi residents”. “We shall not watch when the Jubilee government frustrates our constitution which the Opposition leader Raila Odinga fought hard for it to an extent of being detained and imprisoned,” he said. Mr Kingi added that he was confident that Mr Odinga shall emerge victorious in the August 7 General Election and begin a new era of leadership that shall defend devolution. Politicians eying to unseat Mr Kingi are Kilifi North MP Gideon Munga’ro, former labour Cabinet Secretary Kazungu Kambi, Pwani University lecturer Prof Gabriel Katana and Malindi businessman Michael Tinga. Mr Kingi of ODM party is expected to face stiff competition from Mr Mung’aro, who is the Coast Jubilee’s pointman, Kaddu Asili flag-bearer Mr Kambi and Mr Tinga from the Wiper Party. The aspirants are currently crisscrossing the county to woo supporters ahead of the elections.   Each sub county will get sh187.5 million.