There is every indication that Kenyans are in for tough times as the doctors’ strike entered its seventh week last midnight. The ongoing situation is reminiscent of the last teachers’ strike when yours truly stated in this column that dawa ya deni ni kulipa (literally, the medicine for debt is to pay it). While accusing fingers are pointing at “callous” doctors, who have put their yet-to-be-honoured collective bargaining agreement (CBA) above patients’ lives, a few fundamental issues need to be taken into account. First is a reflection on one of the most famous quotes by Spanish philosopher and novelist George Santayana that those who do not remember the past are condemned to repeat it. The quote is relevant at this time because based on previous patterns of similar strikes — including the teachers’ and the university lecturers’ strike that began on Thursday — the inevitability of doctors’ strike should have been obvious. It was, therefore, incumbent upon the doctors’ employers to do everything possible to avert the strike, which is taking a huge toll on the lives of Kenyans, and especially the jobless. Youth unemployment in Kenya is at 17.3 per cent — the highest in East Africa. Unemployment spells inability to earn a living, which, in turn, means no food to eat; a malnourished body is an easy target for opportunistic infections and diseases, meaning that the doctors’ strike could not be more inopportune, given the growing numbers of those in need of health services. SUGGESTIONSThe most-touted argument against the 100 per cent pay increase the doctors are demanding in line with a 2013 CBA is that it is unaffordable. That may well be the case, because currently, the highest paid medical doctor earns around Sh300,000, inclusive of allowances. If the expected pay increase is based on the take-home salary, then the highest paid doctor will earn nearly Sh1 million. The figure is both scary and outrageous — except that the doctors would not be the first to earn such salaries, which are the norm rather than the exception for State officers, including judges, elected officials and the Executive. The crux of the matter is that Kenya’s best brains, who include doctors, earn peanuts compared to louts, who pass for waheshimiwa, a number of whom have not as much as set foot in high school. Therefore, if the pay doctors are demanding is outrageous, the real outrage should lie with justification of bloated salaries for State officers in a poor nation despite its pretences to being a middle-income country. I have some suggestions for fixing persistent strikes by professional cadres: •Keep your promises: The government should learn to say no to demands for pay increases that it knows it cannot afford or has no intention of honouring. The doctors and lecturers’ strikes are rooted in dishonoured agreements. •Salary structures: Although the Salaries and Remuneration Commission (SRC) has only recently rolled out new pay structures for civil servants for implementation in the next Budget, that may not be a solution. Our real problem is the huge gap between the highest and lowest paid public servants — Sh10,000 and Sh300,000 to be exact. •Work-for-pay: The situation is aggravated by State officers’ salaries and allowances, which are as high as Sh2 million. Does the government seriously expect doctors and lecturers to believe the yarn about “no money”, when the political class, especially, whose business is to amass wealth, earn millions for work not done? •The Constitution: one of the greatest blunders Kenyans allowed in the 2010 Constitution was the creation of multiple layers of governance. With the presidency, governors, senators, woman representatives, and members of county assemblies, Kenyans are saddled with “employees” they can ill-afford to pay. A lasting solution to the crisis lies in a constitutional overhaul to streamline our governance structures to ease the taxpayers’ burden on multiple layers of governance, that add little value to the welfare of Kenyans.  