The withdrawal of security teams attached to governors Hassan Joho and Amason Kingi has drawn wide condemnation because the circumstance in which it was done shows it was calculated to punish the opposition leaders for publicly disagreeing with President Uhuru Kenyatta over development projects in their regions. And the explanation by State House spokesman Manoah Esipisu that it was a normal reorganisation of security by regional commanders falls flat on its face. It is curious why the “reorganisation” had to be done just after the public spat between the two governors and the President. Even then, reorganisation does not mean recalling the officers without replacing them. Such tactics remind us of the high-handedness of the Kanu era, when anyone opposing the President would be intimidated through crash acts like withdrawing their entitlements and privileges. Indeed, such acts depict the government in negative light and expose it as intolerant, thin-skinned and averse to criticism. Not surprisingly, opposition leaders have latched onto this to land blistering attacks on the government. The Council of Governors has even threatened to sue. A more fundamental point is that such acts amount to abuse of power. Those in charge of providing security imagine they can do what they want yet there are guidelines about who is entitled to it and the circumstances in which it can be withdrawn. It is not their business to allocate security only to those who support the government; they do not have those discretionary powers. Governors Joho and Kingi may have offended the President but that does not mean they should be punished. It is bad politics. In an era of a liberalised political landscape, individuals are entitled to their opinions. It is French writer Voltaire who aptly remarked that: “I may disagree with what you have to say, but I shall defend to the death your right to say it.” Clearly, the Presidency must be respected and we urge political leaders to be civil when dealing with the institution. But those over-enthusiastic government functionaries should stop actions that end up being counter-productive.  