More women are throwing their hats in the ring for political posts in western and southern Kenya, in what is expected to be one of the most competitive elections in recent history. The aspirants, most of them professionals, say they are ready to brave the high-octane political season often characterised by hooliganism and mudslinging. According to those who spoke to the Nation, they will be banking on their track records, professionalism and strong leadership skills to trounce their opponents. Those running for governorships include political activist Atieno Otieno (Kisumu), Kakamega businesswoman Mabel Muruli, and Anne Anyanga (Migori). Other women running for the top county seats include Sotik MP Joyce Laboso (Bomet) and Kisumu Deputy Governor Ruth Odinga. Dr Rose Kisia, the Kisumu County Executive for Tourism, will lock horns with Nyando MP Fred Outa in the fight for the Senate seat, as Siaya County Assembly nominated member Margaret Oketch seeks to unseat Senator James Orengo. Ms Muruli, who has experienced violence first-hand after a group of youths attempted to disrupt her soccer tournament last week, said she would not be cowed out of the race. She is fighting to unseat Governor Wycliffe Oparanya, the ODM deputy party leader. “We are aware of the unique challenges faced by women candidates, including political hooliganism. But I’m a law-abiding citizen and don’t subscribe to that,” Ms Muruli, who is considered to have the financial muscle to give her competitors, Mr Oparanya and Senator Boni Khalwale, a run for their money, said. TRACK RECORDMs Otieno, who currently chairs Maendeleo ya Wanawake, said hooliganism was a “rogue means” to power used by a backward politicians. “We can approach voters in a more civilised way, sell our policies and let the people decide who is suitable for the job,” she said. Dr Kisia said she would rely on her track record in her previous jobs, skills and better understanding of devolution to woo supporters. “The people look at experience and capability to represent them, but not gender,” she said. Ms Oketch, who represents the disabled in Siaya, cited the many Bills she has sponsored as an achievement to hand her votes in her senatorial bid. “I am confident of being the second senator for Siaya County by beating Mr Orengo and advocating for more resources to the counties.” Nominated Senator Godliver Omondi, who is disabled, will run for the Kholera Ward representative’s seat in Matungu constituency. “If I was not disabled, I would have gone for the Senate seat, but I can’t compete favourably due to the hostility and abuse thrown at me,” she said. She said it had not been easy as her opponents had been telling the voters not to elect someone who “cannot stand on the podium or wear shoes”. In the entire western Kenya, National Assembly Deputy Speaker and Sotik MP Joyce Laboso, Ms Mary Emase (Teso South) and Ms Millie Odhiambo (Mbita) are the only constituency-elected women MPs.  