Kenyans have a way of making light of everything. After observing how over the past few weeks the major political party leaders have retreated to their home areas to whip supporters into registering as voters, someone drew attention to the Biblical verse of Luke 2:3 – “And everyone went to their own town to register”. This verse relates to a census carried out in the Roman world during the reign of Caesar Augustus. But it is also a cheeky reference to just how much Kenyan elections have turned into a national census, with all the politicians rushing to their villages the moment the voter registration window opened. Essentially, the election will come down to this – who between Moses Wetang’ula, Uhuru Kenyatta, Raila Odinga, Musalia Mudavadi and William Ruto will be able to rally the greatest number of his ethnic kinsmen to register to vote? In 1992, President Daniel arap Moi famously spoke about his opposition to a competitive system of politics in Kenya. “I have refused to allow multiparty democracy in Kenya because it will divide Kenyans along tribal lines. Vyama vingi vitaleta ukabila Kenya. Siku moja mtakubali haya maneno yangu.” (Many parties will entrench ethnic-based politics in Kenya. One day you will see that I was right)," he said. Mzee Moi is not one to take seriously about the trouble with politics run along ethnic lines. All through his political career, he was hardly a nationalist and actively practised divisive politics. In the 1950s and 60s, he benefited from the colonial administration’s games of pitting “big tribes” against the “small tribes”. BIGGEST ROLE When he became president, nothing played a bigger role in his approach to governance than the politics of division, which he saw as his ticket to survival. Three decades later, though, Moi, in his own way, has been proved right. Kenya is probably more divided along ethnic lines now than it has ever been. The great moment of hope was the 2002 election, when Kenyans from across the nation united behind the National Rainbow Coalition. The decision by the Mount Kenya elite around Mwai Kibaki to discard the memorandum of understanding that was to guide Narc was a shameful betrayal. The Opposition in 2007, in turn, played a nakedly ethnic card in seeking to mobilise support, with bloody consequences. Kenya has not recovered from the events that took place between 2002 and 2007. Every election now is essentially a communal contest between duelling elites from the major ethnic groups, who are able to carry along virtually all their supporters. It is difficult to recall a time when mobilisation for registration has been carried out in the starkly ethnic terms we are witnessing. Some will be tempted, like Moi, to blame democracy for this state of affairs. But neighbouring countries such as Tanzania have escaped this problem, demonstrating that it is not necessarily true that the system itself is the problem. In Kenya, it is the leaders who have cynically opted to use the lowest common denominator to rally support. Voters have gone along with this ethnic game. In the circumstances, maybe only when the current generation of ethnic kingpins is gone from the scene will the country witness elections that do not resemble a census. *** Donald J. Trump’s crusade against the citizens of Muslim nations shows that elections, as Barack Obama stated repeatedly on the campaign trail, truly have consequences. The bans are savagely indiscriminate and illogical. Iran, for example, is one of the greatest foes of al-Qaeda and Isis. As TheNew York Times reported, there are more American recruits to Isis than there are Iranian recruits. The next four years will be very long ones for a world that will have to deal with the unpredictable consequences of these wild decisions. *** Not to fall into the same trap as the American liberal media, whose wailing over Trump’s victory has looked quite undignified, but this analysis on Trump’s behaviour by Jane Goodall, the world-renowned primatologist after whom the chimpanzee sanctuary at Ol Pejeta is named, is striking: “In many ways the performances of Donald Trump remind me of male chimpanzees and their dominance rituals. In order to impress rivals, males seeking to rise in the dominance hierarchy perform spectacular displays: stamping, slapping the ground, dragging branches, throwing rocks. The more vigorous and imaginative the display, the faster the individual is likely to rise in the hierarchy”.  mutiganews@gmail.com@mutigam  