Schools open today for the start of the academic calendar this year. It is a tough time for parents who have to pay fees, buy books, uniform, and other teaching and learning materials. The price of books has soared due to the introduction of a 30 per cent tax on printing materials. This has serious implications on the cost of learning. The new academic term begins against a backdrop of major developments in education. The results of last year’s Standard Eight and Form Four examinations have all been released, earlier than usual. Performance generally declined due to stringent rules that locked out cheats. However, the results revealed that learning has not been going on in schools as it should. It appears many schools relied on leaked exam papers, which were used to drill learners. To curb this, there should be intensified supervision of schools to ensure that students are taught as they should be. Education Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i must strengthen the quality assurance division and make it do its job. The measures introduced to curb cheating must be enhanced and sustained. OBEY RULESSecond, regulations on school fees must be enforced. Evidence abounds that schools perennially flout guidelines on fees. They charge exorbitant fees without offering commensurate services. A number are involved in grandiose projects that add little value to academic programmes, instead only opening avenues for misappropriation of funds. This must be stopped. Fee guidelines are meant to make learning affordable to all eligible children and the objective must be respected. Third, our education is due for major reform. For the past two years, a team of experts has been working on proposals to change the system with the overall objective of ensuring enhanced access, quality, and improved transition across the various levels. It is time to pilot the reforms and proceed to full roll-out. Education faces a crisis and the new year provides the opportunity to reverse this and chart a new course.  