Donald Trump was sworn in Friday as the 45th president of the United States, taking the oath of office at the US Capitol as hundreds of thousands of ecstatic supporters cheered the historic handover of power. He took oath of office at 8pm Kenyan time and delivered his inaugural address before leading a parade to the White House. The 70-year-old Republican placed his hand on two Bibles — his own and one used by Abraham Lincoln — to take the solemn oath, ushering in a new political era that has been met with delight and dread in equal measure.   "I, Donald John Trump, do solemnly swear that I will faithfully execute the office of president of the United States, and will to the best of my ability, preserve, protect and defend the Constitution of the United States. So help me God," he declared, before pumping his fist in the air several times. President Trump vowed in his inaugural address that every US decision would be guided by a vision that puts "only America first." "From this day forward, a new vision will govern our land. From this day forward, it's going to be only America first," he said. "We, the citizens of America, are now joined in a great national effort to rebuild our country and restore its promise for all of our people," Trump told a crowd of hundreds of thousands massed on the National Mall. Trump's inauguration caps the improbable rise to power of the Manhattan real estate mogul, who had never before held elected office, served in the government or the armed forces. A crowd of hundreds of thousands looked on, including outgoing president Barack Obama and Trump's defeated election opponent Hillary Clinton — who narrowly missed out on becoming America's first female president. "I've been waiting for this for a long time. We just want change," said Thomas Mendenhall, 68, a retired banker from Missouri. At 70 years of age, he is the oldest man ever to begin work in the Oval Office. He has vowed to tear up Obama's policies and re-examine decades-old alliances with Europe and in Asia. Beginning Friday, his team plans a rolling series of daily executive orders to roll back Obama's agenda. But he enters office with a 37 percent approval rating, the lowest on record, according to a CBS News poll. His inauguration was notably more sparsely attended than that of Obama in 2009 and 2013.   "It all begins today!" President-elect tweets from his overnight lodgings.