A new team that will guide the country to the next elections due this August has taken the oath of office in Nairobi, signalling the end to an era that started with street protests by opposition leaders last year. At a ceremony held at the Supreme Court chambers in Nairobi on Friday, Wafula Chebukati, the new chairman of the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC), said he would steer the commission to credible elections by following the law. “I pledge to work with all stakeholders within the law to ensure that we have a free, fair and credible election come August 8th this year,” he told a gathering that included Chief Justice David Maraga, IEBC chief executive Ezra Chiloba and Attorney-General Githu Muigai. IMPARTIALITY “As a country, we have gone through past polls, at times characterised by violence, voter apathy and unending electoral disputes. “As a collective responsibility, we must put a stop to the connection between elections and electoral malpractices, the worst of them all, electoral violence.” Mr Chebukati, who has spent most of his professional life as a lawyer, assured political contenders of impartiality but cautioned that violators will be punished. He is coming into office with six other commissioners who are Ms Consolata Nkatha Bucha Maina, Mr Boya Mulu, Dr Roselyn Akombe Kwamboka, Dr Paul Kibiwott Kurgat, Margaret Wanjala Mwachanya, Prof Abdi Yakub Guliye. They are taking over at a time IEBC is registering new voters, with a target of six million by February 14. HASSAN TEAM But it is also a time when the commission has seven months to deliver credible elections and restore public confidence. The new team replaces Ahmed Issack Hassan and his eight commissioners who were so unpopular among opposition leaders that they were seen to be biased towards the government and incompetent in handling elections. It is a charge Mr Hassan and his colleagues vehemently denied but their defence didn’t help them. In May this year, opposition Coalition of Reforms and Democracy (Cord) under Raila Odinga began street protests to hound the Hassan team out of office. Initially, the then commissioners —Ms Lilian Mahiri-Zaja, Mr Albert Bwire, Ms Kule Godana, Dr Yusuf Nzibo, Mr Abdulahi Sharawe, Mr Thomas Letangule, Ms Muthoni Wangai and Ms Mohammed Alawi— realising they had security of tenure, refused to move. READY TO GO But as things went, religious leaders and diplomats in Nairobi intervened to pressurise leaders to negotiate a lawful solution. A joint parliamentary team would later reach a number of solutions, including having the commissioners resign and be compensated, new ones appointed and electoral laws changed. A selection panel initially submitted nine individuals for posts of commissioners and two names for chairman. President Kenyatta would settle for this group which will be led by Mr Chebukati. At the swearing-in, the group said they will “hit the ground running”, especially since they have a tight schedule before august. COURT CASES "My commission shall operate an open-door policy. Those stakeholders with current and future disputes against the commission’s operations are encouraged to discuss the same with us with the view to finding an amicable solution instead of going to court as their first option.” “I also appeal to the judiciary to fast-track current court cases which directly affect the tight timelines set for the preparation of the August 8 General Election,” he said referring to a case filed to stop the auditing of the voters’ register, which was filed recently. At the ceremony, Justice Maraga said the commission has a big role to ensure this country does plunge into violence. MARAGA'S ADVICE “Elections is just one of the activities in our lives. Elections and leaders come and go but Kenya will be here forever. The events of 2007/08 is a situation that we cannot afford to revert to. “If citizens, political parties and candidates do not see elections as free and fair, it can lead to instability.” "Management of elections is directly related to the prosperity of our nation. No investor can put their money in a country whose leaders' legitimacy is questioned. "If there are any cases that will arise from these elections, I want to assure Kenyans that the Judiciary is ready to take on any cases and complete them within the stipulated time.   Clean-up of the register on hold after award to KPMG disputed, polling devices tender on hold,