The burial of politician Mark Too will go on as planned and nothing will disrupt the process, the family lawyer said on Thursday. This comes even as a group of squatters on Thursday sought to be enjoined in a suit seeking to stop his burial. Prof Tom Ojienda, addressing journalists at the former Nominated MP’s Muthaiga home in Nairobi, said the litigation that has been initiated will not affect the burial. He was reacting to a case by a woman seeking to stop the burial until her son, who she says is Mr Too’s child, is included in his estate. Ms Fatuma Ramadhan Hassan has stated that her 16-year-old son will suffer psychologically if he is excluded from participating in the burial of the businessman. “The case is due for a mention in court tomorrow and as it stands now, the case has no orders that will not support the burial,” said the family lawyer. Prof Ojienda also said that those seeking to stop the burial from Mr Too’s Eldoret home were wrong as again, as there were no orders and that there were no squatters on the politician’s farm. The family also revealed that Mr Too died from an aneurysm, whereby one of his arteries burst, causing his heart to fail. Mr Kiprop Chirchir, the burial committee chairman in Nairobi, also said that the only funeral arrangement that had changed was that the requiem service planned for Friday, would be held at AIC Milimani. INTERRED IN THE AFTERNOON He said the body would be returned to Lee Funeral Home and flown to Eldoret on Sunday morning to proceed to his farm at Kapseret. There will be an interdenominational service on the same day. The burial service will be held on Monday morning and Mr Too will be interred in the afternoon. Meanwhile in Uasin Gishu County, more than 1,000 squatters, through their lawyer, Mr William Arusei, moved to the High Court in Nairobi to obtain orders to stop Mr Too’s burial at his Maziwa Farm owing to a pending land case they have filed in Eldoret. Mr Too has been sued by the squatters over ownership of the 27,000 acres of land located near the Eldoret International Airport. The High Court in Eldoret is expected to issue judgment on January 27. The case has been going on for the past 10 years. “Our firm position is that he cannot be buried on the disputed farm since the case is pending before a judge who has yet to be determine who is the legal owner,” said Mr Arusei. The squatters were, however, not opposed to Mr Too’s burial, saying he could be interred anywhere else but not on the disputed parcel. Mr Too died on December 31, at St Lukes Orthopedic and Trauma Centre in Eldoret. According to the family, Mr Too will be buried on Monday on his Maziwa farm, Kapsaret, Uasin Gishu County.  Reported by Brian Moseti, Dennis Lubanga and Barnabas Bii   He died after a short illness.