A photojournalist is a journalist who uses pictures to communicate a story. Like other journalists, photojournalists are held to a standard of ethics and rules on what images are acceptable for presentation to the public. This week Wandia Seaforth raised a very interesting aspect of the photojournalistic ethics of the Nation Media Group (NMG). She was concerned that NMG presents to the public images of people that have been blown up to show unnecessary and embarrassing details, thereby intrusively invading their privacy and offending readers. “Cameras are so efficient nowadays they pick up details that need not be amplified in the newspapers,” she began. “Of particular concern are blown up photos. We see close-ups showing inside people’s noses – hair and stuff. I have seen fillings in teeth, coated tongues and even a prominent personality with what looked like spinach between his teeth. I think the newspaper should exercise some discretion on blowing up images in all fairness to the persons involved and in respect for the reader.” Her concern is valid because what we may call “photographic truth” may not be justified or even accurately represent the subject. For example, zooming in on a politician’s bloodshot eyes may mislead the viewer that he is a perpetual consumer of alcohol while he may have an eye condition such as glaucoma. If he has a piece of greens in his teeth, may be this was his unlucky day. Close-ups can be callously intrusive and embarrassing to individuals. CLEAR POLICY NMG has a clear policy on the use of images. If they are obscene, vulgar or offensive to public good taste they should not be used. Ditto if they are “invasive of anyone’s privacy”, unless the use of any such images is justified by “a clear and indisputable public interest”. With regard to the election coverage that is now consuming us, strict adherence to accuracy and fairness is required in the use of images. Editors are required to carefully select pictures and captions that do not unwittingly send the wrong message or distort the truth. “In this regard, no editing shall be done to either diminish the size of crowds or to enhance them. Where the impression created by a truthful photo is an issue, a different one shall be chosen, rather than resort to the aid of Photoshop.” Notwithstanding the NMG policy, Seaforth’s concern is problematic for the simple reason that photojournalistic ethics is an inherently subjective issue. There are people who may feel justified in preferring “photographic truth”: If the politician has chiselled teeth, why should we not see them? In many ways, photojournalistic ethics have no clear-cut lines on what is or is not ethical. A lot may depend on the media organisation, the laws of the land, our culture and community values. ETHICAL PRINCIPLES In his book Photojournalism: An Ethical Approach, Prof Paul Lester outlines six ethical principles intended to help photographers and editors make decisions on what images are acceptable or in good taste. There are three that I find most useful. The first one is utilitarianism philosophy, which tries to balance the positives and negatives of a situation, and maximise the good for the greatest number of people. For example, if a gruesome image of an old woman who has been burnt to death because she is suspected of being a witch offends readers like Seaforth, but shocks the community into stopping such practices, then taking and publishing such an image is ethical. The second is what Prof Lester calls the "golden mean", which goes for compromise. If there is a less intrusive, offensive, or disagreeable photo of that old woman who has been lynched that still tells the story, then that is the better image to use. The third one is “Love thy neighbour as thyself” philosophy. As an ethical philosophy, it requires that a photographer or editor treat his subjects as he would treat himself. If the three philosophies are followed, I think, there may be fewer occasions when readers like Seaforth will find it necessary to complain.  Send your complaints to publiceditor@ke.natiomedia.com; text or call 0721989264.  