Long before taking office, President Donald Trump pronounced his foreign policy imperative. The “always America first” is a policy stance that is inward-looking in everything domestic and foreign and puts American interest as a priority; political, economic or security related. It has never been so blatant. A number of issues worry diplomats: first, is that President Trump has the tendency to make and broadcast decisions on the run without considering possible consequences. This, however, should not worry; US system is highly structured and institutionalised and policy making is a whole process. What the President verbalises or tweets is, therefore, unlikely to automatically translate into official policy without rigorous consideration. Secondly, President Trump’s disdain for and scepticism of Nato and the UN (and UN Security Council Resolutions) is alarming. His dismissal of Nato as irrelevant and condemnation of the Obama administration for not vetoing UN Security Council Resolution 2334 on illegal Israeli settlements in Palestinian territory affirms a worrisome world view that could give birth to a new world order where each nation brutally pursues its national interests on unfettered self-help basis; very akin to pre-League of Nations/UN epoch. Thirdly, is his unapologetic dismissal of the “One-China” policy, and declaration that the US would no longer defend its traditional “ally-clients” against external threats unless they pay for it or otherwise they self-defend. Many are likely to opt for self-defence and so a new arms race will ensue in tandem. 'CLIENT' MEMBERS There is every possibility of a new world order where “anarchy and self-help” reigns supreme within a multi-polar system dominated by 10 or more nuclear weaponry powered states. These new power players with capability to defend their sovereignty and national interests are likely to be America’s traditional post-World War II “client” members of Nato, Japan and South Korea, but also India. Fourthly, the emergent economic and military power players will insist on joining US, Russia, Britain, France and China as permanent members of the UN Security Council. Although he may not have intended it, President Trump’s foreign policy stances may just trigger into existence a multi-polar system that is drastically different from the bipolar one of the Cold War era where just two powerful constellations ruled the world. On the economic front, traditional partners jilted by Trump’s “America first always” stance will rely less on trade agreements with US. This is predicated on the President’s resolve to renegotiate the North American Free Trade Agreement, the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership, among others. LOOK ELSEWHERE Traditional US economic partners will have to look elsewhere for new trade and investment opportunities and Africa will be a critical area of interest for them. In which case, China that has taken the lead role to opening up and developing the African market will soon face competition from America’s longstanding traditional economic partners. Big players with renewed interest in Africa could also be tempted to pursue their respective interests by “dividing” Africa into spheres of influence and friendship. This would be detrimental to African Union’s economic integration agenda for the continent. US-Africa relations are hinged on three key agenda; economy, counter-terrorism, and immigration. There is fear of President Trump relegating Africa to irrelevance to the extent that his quid pro quo stance means “scratch my back and I scratch yours”. Africa may not presently put on the table what the US needs to warrant America-funded economic empowerment programmes, but she will tomorrow. US should, therefore, not be too short-sighted as to miss out on future mutual prosperity. The reality is that global powers will not ignore Africa’s market potential for trade, investment and industrial raw materials. ECONOMIC ISSUE On the immigration and economic development question, President Trump should proceed from the proposition that immigration is an economic and not a security issue. One way of stemming immigration from Africa would be to help establish sustainable livelihoods for African youth in their home countries. On global security and counter-terrorism, Trump said “we will reinforce old alliances and form new ones – and unite the civilised world against radical Islamic terrorism”. The unequivocal pronouncement above opened the window for Africa to engage the Trump administration on countering violent extremism. In doing so, Africa should share three realities, firstly, that, countering terrorism requires forging alliances and cooperating with others. Secondly, terrorist networks choose to establish and operate from geographical spaces with low or weak presence of effective governance. Thirdly, that even those terrorist groups that present themselves as regional outfits like Boko Haram and al-Shabaab are part of international networks with which they share technology, weaponry and fighters. It would be a policy blunder for Africa to sit back and wait for the Trump team to roll out its policies before acting. To proactively and positively engage the new administration is the right thing to do, as opposed to “wait and see” posturing.  Zaddock Syong’oh is former policy adviser, Ministry of Foreign Affairs. zsyongoh@iracc.co.ke  