Deputy President William Ruto was on Thursday heckled by a hostile crowd in Narok as he urged residents to register as voters in the ongoing listing exercise. Mr Ruto was addressing the residents at Sogoo Secondary School in Narok South when he was shouted down by a section of the crowd after he told them to acquire national identification cards (IDs) and register as voters. The angry residents claimed that they were being asked to pay to be issued with IDs and further criticized the government’s development record in the area. They complained about poor roads, poor health services, unemployment and police harassment to boda boda riders. LOCAL LEADERS Accompanied by Energy Cabinet Secretary Charles Keter, he had earlier launched the last mile connectivity programme in two homes at Sogoo trading centre. Through the programme, Kenyans near power lines are connectivity to the national grid at a small or no cost. The crowd refused to hear from some of their local leaders accompanying the DP, among them the Narok Woman Representative Soipan Ole Kudate and Sogoo MCA Moses Cheruyoit. The DP, having managed to calm the crowd, was forced to take over as the master of ceremonies and invited a few leaders to speak, including Governor Samuel ole Tunai who was spared the heckling. The residents demanded and pushed a Mr Julius Kibienei to speak on their behalf. ROAD PLEDGES Among others, they demanded that local administration officers be transferred, claiming they were demanding Sh300 from locals to issue them with national identity cards. Mr Ruto directed county commissioner Moffat Kangi to investigate and take action against officers demanding payment. He also pledge that the Mulo-Sogoo and Lulunga-Sogoo-Olmekenyu roads would be tarmacked within the next one year, with murram being put immediately. Also accompanying Mr Ruto was Kilgoris MP Gideon Konchella, Narok East MP Mr Lemanken Aramat and the county woman representative. The DP is scheduled to address three more rallies at Loita, Lolgorian and Ongata Barikoi.  