At this point, if you think about it, everyone in Kenya should be on strike. Just the doctors’ strike is far from enough. The doctors are on strike for their dues, yes, but also for implementation of the entire 2013 collective bargaining agreement. For those who are not aware, it is the government’s responsibility to ensure that health services are available, even for those who cannot fly to South Africa for medical treatment. Ministers can fly to India for treatment but your average mwananchi can’t. The government, the one that we voted for and pay taxes to, is supposed to handle all that. Doctors are actually on strike for rights that are due to you, not just them. Because otherwise, the health system goes down the drain; Kenyans will continue to die in excessively large numbers. We vote so that the government handles all the things individuals or businesses can’t, like national security and healthcare. Here’s the catch — the government is a business. That’s the only explanation I can come up with after watching how they have dealt with everything that is killing Kenyans thus far, including the most recent strike. DIE FOR KENYANS And this is why I am saying that everyone should be on strike. Because at this point, other than launching footbridges, it does not at all seem like those in power care about how the rest of us are getting medical services. They just don’t care, to the point that governors want to sack doctors for not calling off the strike. What will this solve? What is the plan here? To hire other doctors? From where and with which money? And if they have money to hire others…why don’t they just pay the ones that are already there? On top of that, the Council of Governors says it wants doctors' union officials held personally responsible for the strike and sentenced to jail. They also want doctors made to pay for to injuries and deaths caused by their strike. How will doctors pay? With what money? With what means, seeing that they have been on strike for over a month? And who is really responsible for not implementing a document from three years ago? Teachers should go on strike as well. And the police, because Lord knows, other than the ones working directly with the government to stop protests or the ones performing miracles in their bank accounts, they aren’t being paid or living well either, by any definition of the term. On top of that, they are being asked to die for Kenyans. Lecturers want to go on strike as well. BLEEDING PROFUSELY On that note, I should apologise to Education Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i. I was one of the first people to blame him for the school fires, thinking that the children were truly unhappy. Though I still feel this is true, because we learn too much cramming and not enough critical thinking in our schools, little did I know that it was my naiveté that assumed the fires came from the students and not exam cartels. We should all go on strike. Everything here directly affects you — everything that the doctors are fighting for. At the end of the day, unless you have money for a plane ticket or a private emergency room, you are the one who is going to die bleeding profusely in the middle of a highway. Your child, who will not get a quality education because teachers are overworked, underpaid and uninspired. You are the one who pays taxes for these people to make more money than you will ever see in a lifetime; even though you work your entire life, you can’t beat a system designed to keep you down and the people who perpetuate it up. Where is the outrage? We should all be on strike. Twitter: @AbigailArunga  