President Uhuru Kenyatta took a laudable step, meeting the striking doctors’ union officials on Wednesday in Mombasa, in an attempt to resolve the impasse over their salaries. The strike has gone on for too long because the national and county governments, which manage health programmes, have not handled it well. It is for this reason that the doctors had appealed to the President to take charge of the negotiations in the hope that the resolution of the stalemate would be expedited. President Kenyatta made a proposal of a cumulative 40 per cent raise in the doctors’ salaries and allowances. However, the officials of the Kenya Medical Practitioners, Pharmacists and Dentists Union strategically chose not to commit themselves, but instead undertook to consult their members before making a decision. The issues in contention have been canvassed many times. The medical practitioners want the government to implement the collective bargaining agreement (CBA) signed in 2013. Matters have been complicated by the fact that both the national and county governments are responsible for medical services, which has created confusion. Although on paper the medical practitioners are protesting at poor remuneration, in practice, there are many underlying issues that afflict public health. Hospitals and other facilities are in a deplorable state due to lack of equipment and medicines. Health workers are overworked, overwhelmed, and unable to deliver. Health services have been devolved with the objective of improving medicare at the grassroots. Unfortunately, the counties are ill-structured and poorly equipped to handle health services. As we have argued before, the government and the counties must find a quick resolution to the doctors’ strike. However, they must seek long-term resolutions to the challenges in health, including funding, equipment, and management. For now, the doctors must rethink their hard-line stance, consider the government offer, and go back to work even as they continue to press for the full implementation of the CBA.  