Perhaps no other incumbent government has gone into an election year with so many strikes against it, literally and metaphorically. The doctors’ strike, which has become a festering sore, has gone on for too long, and too many Kenyans are suffering. The problem is the government will not pay the astronomical figures being demanded by doctors, not because it is unwilling but because it may be unable to do so. That fact should be enough to convince the doctors to accept the 40 per cent increase offered, but they won’t budge. For some reason, the Opposition has kept away from the fray, perhaps recognising that to capitalise on human misery may lead to a backlash. The strike, which started on December 5, is entering its 54th day, a very sad indictment of a government that started with a great deal of promise. However, it is also an indictment of a doctors’ union that seems to be under the control of powerful forces without. This inflexibility is curious coming as it does during an election year, and this in pursuit of a spurious agreement entered into by clueless government officials four years ago. Strangely, university lecturers have also decided to flex muscle and strike for better pay with much huffing and puffing. However, they may discover the move is imprudent. If the government is unwilling or unable to accommodate doctors who are so fundamental to the nation’s well-being, why should it be in a mood to entertain other salary demands that are beyond its capacity to pay? After all, it is easier to close a university than to close a Level-4 hospital. LIVING COST It is not easy to begrudge the doctors in public hospitals or lecturers in public universities pay increases especially at a time when the cost of living is becoming almost unbearable. But this is the point. If the economy is in distress, there cannot be enough money to pay obscene salaries to anyone. The fact is, if you live beyond your means, you’ll eventually descend into penury. Because these two strikes have come in close succession, they have given rise to all sorts of conspiracy theories. The first, and perhaps most ominous, is that they have been engineered by the Opposition to make the government look incompetent. So far, there has not been a shred of evidence to back that claim, but in this poisoned atmosphere, it could begin sounding like the truth if repeated often enough. The second theory is that there is money aplenty, but the government will reject the workers’ demands because it would set a bad precedent. That is only logical. If it paid that kind of money, others in the public service would settle for nothing less. This is a situation fraught with danger for blackmail seems to have replaced structured negotiations, and once you accede to blackmail, you are in someone’s pockets forever. GOD'S ACT Even then, the biggest blow to the government is not its performance in the tattered labour relations; it is an act of God. It goes without saying that the drought that has hit the country is not of Jubilee’s making, but it will test the government’s mettle more than anything else that has happened so far. The rains have failed consistently in the past few seasons and there is very little food. And although we all have contributed to the deleterious effects of climate change, that fact won’t matter in the end. There is no point trying to convince a starving man that the gods are to blame for his predicament. All these things coming together are enough to make any government jittery, and how ours wriggles out of the quandary will be a major headache. According to some pundits, the only hope that Jubilee has for succeeding itself is if the Opposition tears itself apart. However, it can be assumed that opposition leaders also know the cost of disunity, and will strive to stick together. But adversity sometimes has the effect of strengthening its victims, and Jubilee may emerge stronger from the tribulations. It would therefore be unwise to predict its demise quite so early and start strutting all over the stage in premature celebrations. To start with, the power of incumbency is not to be sneezed at, and secondly, voters are notoriously fickle and may, in the end, prefer to stick with the devil they know.  andrewngwiri@gmail.com  