The appointment of electoral commissioners has been the subject of debate because of the cardinal role they play in the administration of polls. The public wants a commission it has confidence in and can trust to deliver a credible election. It is because of lack of trust that the opposition led a vigorous campaign last year to get rid of the team led by Mr Issack Hassan and replace it with a new one. And it is for that reason that the appointment of the chairperson and commissioners of the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission must be foolproof. To this end, a multi-sectoral panel was set up to conduct the recruitment and give recommendations to President Uhuru Kenyatta for nomination. The list of the nominees has been sent to Parliament, which in turn, has called on the public to give its views on the suitability of the candidates by Monday. The nomination of Mr Wafula Chebukati as chairman of the electoral commission has attracted a lot of debate, with the accent being that he was not the most suitable candidate. It has been pointed out that other candidates performed better and, therefore, that it is questionable why he was nominated. The essence of public participation is two-fold. One, to open the doors for extensive interrogation of the competence and integrity of candidates. Two, to allow the public’s input in the appointment process and in that way parry Executive fiat. Public participation is at the core of the Constitution. However, past experience has shown that public participation has been turned into a meaningless ritual. Few people participate and those who do rarely offer useful insights. Worse, parliamentary committees are preoccupied with politics and pay little attention to public presentations. In other words, public participation hardly achieves anything meaningful. Even so, we encourage the public to seize the opportunity to scrutinise the candidates. And Parliament must listen and incorporate citizens’ views to give meaning to public participation.  