IN LIBREVILLE, GABON Mali’s Aboubaker Sadibe sits pensively in the Stade de Port-Gentil stands, ahead of Tuesday night’s Group ‘D’ game against Egypt at the brand new sports facility erected by the Chinese. His eyes send out a strong message. To him, it is almost unthinkable for the Eagles to lose this tie against the Pharaohs, especially considering Ghana has beaten Uganda in the group’s other game. Reason being, only two teams from the available pool of four can qualify to the quarters. Qualification means a longer stay here. Elimination meanwhile implies that you head back home. “That (elimination) cannot happen. It will be a disaster for Mali,” he roars. Understandably so. After all, the 45-year-old claims to have saved up to $3,000 (about Sh300,000) over the last two years, to travel for 2,500 kilometres, a distance covered in two days, chiefly to watch his national football team play at the Africa Cup of Nations. It is his second visit to this competition. He also made it to Equatorial Guinea two years ago. The gruelling journey and the cash savings isn’t the only sacrifice the father of two has made. “I also closed my clothes shop in Bamako and left my children with their mother for the duration I will be here. I do miss them but I love football.” He says. And he isn’t the only one. Inside the stadium, approximately 3,000 Mali fans are here to watch this match, and almost 80 percent of them having found their way here by road over the last few days. The rest reside and work in Gabon. For them all, following the heavily-built national team around the continent and watching them run other sides rugged is, the best habit to practice after religion. “You suggest I watch this team on TV? How now? That’s not enough. Nowhere near enough. I want to be with them and watch them win or lose.” He adds with some surety. Interestingly, almost all the Mali supporters here are dressed uniformly in clothes bearing the national team colours. Some of them facilitate their stay here. Others have been sponsored by the corporates, while the rest have been brought here by the Mali Football Association in partnership with the government in a project worth millions of shillings. This happens during each tournament. The group is a registered entity back home under the flagship name Eagles supporte Groupe dentraido translated in English to mean Eagles Supporters Self-help Group. Interestingly, these fans just don’t sit there and watch the games. Instead, they cheer, sing, boo the opponents, engage in rehearsed dancing moves and even engaging in drum beating through out the match. The travelling fan base here isn’t limited to Mali, however. The likes of Egypt, Cameroon, Burkina Fasso, Congo, Togo and Cote d’Ivorie are well represented here. Notably absent are the famed Super Eagles Supporters, and that’s only because the Nigeria national football team failed to qualify for this competition. Even Uganda has 23 supporters here, they have been ferried by a local beer company. “Players need support. They are human beings, they want someone cheering on to recharge when they are losing morale or momentum.” Aboubaker concludes in his broken English. That’s even if the match ends in a draw, as was the case on this occasion. At least then with games against Uganda and Ghana coming up, Mali and Aboubaker live to fight another day.   In the game of football, victory hides a multitude of sins while defeat always requires an explanation.