Haika Msaky is a communications executive with progressive experience in television production and public relations. She has managed several television shows and commercials, including popular shows such as Tujuane.  1. How did it feel to produce a show like Tujuane, especially with all the ‘drama’ surrounding it? Tujuane was one of my most fulfilling challenges in terms of the pressure it came with. It was bitter-sweet, especially when it came to the point where people realise that looks alone can’t get you the person you’re looking for because personality is key when it comes to finding the right partner.  2. After producing a show like that one, do you think, from your personal and professional experience that it is hard to date or find good people to date in Nairobi? I wouldn’t say that it’s hard to date. I would say that it has become complex. I believe that there are very many good single people out there, it’s just that people don’t want to put in the effort or work when it comes to dating. Everyone wants the prize but no one wants to pay the price.  3. What are you working on now? I have moved into a different genre. I work for a virtual reality company called Black Rhino. We are a virtual reality company that does 360° VR commercialised videos. We also do documentaries and TV commercials.  4. What do you think is the main reason the film industry is not where it should be? People not shooting shows set in Kenya, TV stations not buying Kenyan shows, producers undercutting actors’ pay such that they are not able to live off on acting gig alone...  5. Have you ever tried making a film in Kenya? Licences are at an insane cost. Funding from well-wishers, or if you’re lucky, a corporate company, is so minimal that people have to dig into their own pockets to do what they love...hence the undercutting of actors’ pay and what have you as well as poor productions coming into being. With the digital migration and all these videos on demand online, companies coming up where one can pay as little as Sh1,000 to watch all the latest international shows, Kenyan TV stations have found it a challenge to buy Kenyan shows all because of lack of eyeballs. Not that there are no good Kenyan TV shows, there are so many, they just lack the backing of the media houses to help them get out there for views.  6. After a stressful day at work, how do you chill? I spend quality time with my amazing son, Kasha. I also have a tight knit group of friends who make life bearable a day at a time.  