Chief Justice David Maraga has told the new Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) to ensure “legitimacy” of Kenya’s leaders by preparing credible polls. At a ceremony for the new commissioners to take oath of office, Justice Maraga said the country’s future and stability was in the team’s hands. “If there is mismanagement or candidates do not respect and adhere to the rules of the game, if citizens, political parties and candidates do not perceive election as free and fair, this can lead to instability in a country,” he said at the Supreme Court Chambers. Justice Maraga spoke after swearing in the team’s new chairman Wanyonyi Chebukati and six other commissioners. They included Ms Consolata Nkatha Bucha Maina, Mr Boya Molu, Dr Roselyn Akombe Kwamboka, Dr Paul Kibiwott Kurgat, Ms Margaret Wanjala Mwachanya, Prof Abdi Yakub Guliye. Mr Chebukati said he will steer the commission to credible elections by following the law. “I pledge to work with all stakeholders within the law to ensure that we have a free, fair and credible election come August 8, this year,” he told a gathering that included Justice Maraga, commission CEO Ezra Chiloba and Attorney-General Githu Muigai. Mr Chebukati and his team replace Mr Issack Hassan and his commissioners Ms Lilian Mahiri-Zaja (vice-chairperson), Mr Albert Bwire, Ms Kule Godana, Dr Yusuf Nzibo, Mr Abdulahi Sharawe, Mr Thomas Letangule, Ms Muthoni Wangai and Ms Mohammed Alawi, 199 days to the next elections. The commissioners took over at a time the team is facing low popularity ratings with some, especially in the opposition, accusing it of previously mismanaging elections. But the Chief Justice reminded the officials of their duty to ensure Kenya does not see another round of post-election violence as in 2007 when 1,133 people were killed and 650,000 others displaced. The Kriegler Commission, formed to investigate poll malpractices, could not tell who won those elections. “An election properly conducted within the constitutional principles inspires confidence, trust and legitimacy in the elected government,” he said. “The resulting peace and tranquility as a result of a free and fair election attract both foreign and domestic investments.” Mr Chebukati had to defend his past link with Mr Philip Kinisu who was forced to resign as chairman of the Ethic and Anti-Corruption Commission after investigations found he had business deals with scandal-hit National Youth Service. He said he was only a lawyer representing a client.  