Identical twins who went to the same school and who scored the same marks in last year’s KCPE exam have caused a buzz after they were enrolled in the same secondary school. Vincent Kahari and Victor Kuria who scored 394 marks were on Monday admitted to Njiiri High School in Murang’a County where they also landed in the same class and dormitory. The twins, born three minutes apart in on March 8, 2003 in Limuru, Kiambu County, are said to have attended the same nursery, primary and now have joined same secondary school. Vincent, who is the eldest said people were surprised and always stare at them when they hear about their story adding that they are now taking it as normal as they were advised by their parents. The two said that they are just ordinary only that they do things together like studying and consult each other frequently and thus being together most of the time. The former Tigoni Primary School pupils said they were also marveled by turn of events though they had seen it coming after they both scored 421 in their index exams “It will be no surprise when we even marry on the same day,” he said amid laughter. The boys have promised to work hard and excel in their KCSE exam and attain the same grade as they walk towards achieving their dreams. Vincent who loves to read the Bible and watching movies wants to be a doctor while Victor who loves mathematics wants to be an accountant. According to Victor, there had been suspicions that they cheated when they scored the same marks during index exams but they were vindicated in their KCPE when they, again, scored the similar marks. They used to be in separate classes but after they were put together in Standard Seven, they started scoring almost similar marks. ‘We were surprised to join school but we did not anticipate to be in the same class again…people cannot believe our story,” he said. “Being twins is just amazing. We do the same things and encourage each other to work hard. We shall continue competing and consulting one another just like we did in primary school,” he added. Mr Andrew Saisi, their class teacher, said he was surprised at the twins' placement despite a random selection process. He noted that the school had three sets of twins who joined Form One but it was the school's first time to admit identical twins who had same marks. “This does not happen all the time so we were marvelled, we organised them to be in same class as we wanted them to continue with that trend of studying together and helping each other,” he said.  