University workers on Thursday began their national strike one university after the other even as the Employment and Labour Relations Court insisted the job boycott is illegal. The strike officially started at at least nine universities, including Jomo Kenyatta University of Science and Technology, Moi, Masinde Muliro and Chuka. Teaching and non-teaching staff also abandoned their work stations at Maseno, Egerton, Maasai Mara, Kisii and Machakos universities. THE CBA The strike involves members of the Kenya University Staff Union (Kusu), University Academic Staff Union (Uasu) and the Kenya Union of Domestic, Hotels, Educational Institutions, Hospitals and Allied Workers (Kudheiha).   They are pushing for higher perks, which comprise the 2013-2017 collective bargaining agreement (CBA) drawn up by the universities, unions and the government. The unions say the CBA, which is set to expire in six months, has never been implemented since it was drawn up six years ago.   Their aim is to have their basic salaries and house allowances increased by 50 per cent to match those of their counterparts in the region and the world. DIRECTIVE The university workers started their industrial action even as the labour court maintained that the strike should remain suspended.   Judge Hellen Wasilwa on Thursday issued the directive in another case filed by the Inter-Public Universities Councils Consultative Forum of Federation of Kenya Employers against Kusu. The court, the judge said, would continue to dispense justice and do its work as required, and that parties in the case had agreed to put off the strike to allow for negotiations. Judge Wasilwa issued her directive after the consultative forum told the court that the workers' unions were agreeing to hold talks while they are in courts only to incite their members to boycott work as soon as they leave the courtroom.   However, the order did not stop the industrial action. REFUSED TO WORK At Egerton University in Njoro, more than 200 workers and lecturers refused to work this morning. The job boycott was launched by Uasu Egerton chapter chairman Fred Mwangangi, Kusu Egerton chapter chair Fred Isaboka and their Kudheiha counterpart Andrew Maoga.   Mr Mwangangi said they had stopped working because all avenues to resolving the dispute had been closed. He accused the government of failing to table a counter-CBA for the four years it has been in power. COUNTER-OFFER According to Mr Mwangangi, government agencies responsible for implementing the CBA have been frustrating negotiations with unions. He said they had resolved that the strike would go on until the government tables a counter-offer.   Mr Isaboka said they want the counter-CBA implemented before April so that it can be factored in the 2017/18 budget. At Machakos University, teaching staff kept off classes and marched along the Makueni-Machakos road as they waved placards and sang songs calling out the government. PROFESSORS They said they would not return to work unless the government calls them to the negotiating table. Led by Uasu Machakos chapter secretary-general Njoki Ndung'u, the lecturers said they had spent a lot of time and money acquiring their qualifications but were not compensated accordingly.   They said university professors were among the best-paid professionals when the country gained independence in 1963 but the government had distorted the pay scheme in favour of civil servants over the years. They called for salary structures to be harmonised so that civil servants and teaching profession are paid equally. "Deputy President William Ruto is our student. How much has he spent on his doctorate and how much does he expect to gain from it," she said. CBA PLEA University students could be seen hanging around the campus with no classes to attend. At Chuka University, teaching and non-teaching staff downed their tools as early as 9am.   They also demanded that the 2013/2017 collective bargaining agreement be signed and implemented. Uasu Chuka branch chairperson Alice Lunani vowed that they would only resume duty once the agreement is implemented. SH1.5 MILLION "The government is so fast in responding to issues raised by nurses and politicians but so hesitant on lecturers' concerns," she said. The least-paid lecturer, she said, should get Sh365,000 and the highest Sh1.5 million if the agreement is implemented.   Kusu Chuka branch chairman Timothy Mutani said they they would not relent until the government raises their pay. Ms Lunani urged union members to respond only to directions given by their union leadership through them. NO SERVICES "We are now answerable to our union leadership and not any other person until the strike ends," she said. A Nation spot-check established that no services were being offered in all university offices. At Maasai Mara University, some 420 members of Uasu and Kusu are still holed up in a closed-door meeting after which they are expected to join the strike. They plan to hold a demo from the university to Narok town, according to Kusu branch chairman Kiplangat Serem and Uasu chairman Boniface Isalambo. Mr Serem said the workers would withdraw their services until the government agrees to negotiate and sign the 2013-2017 CBA. Reports by Maureen Kakah, Stephen Muthini, Mary Wambui, Elgar Machuka, Wycliffe Kipsang, Alex Njeru, Benson Amadala, George Sayagie and Joseph Openda.  