We have completely lost the war before the new chairman of the anti-graft commission assumes office. I suspect that the Executive, Parliament and the chairman of Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) have all conspired to defraud Kenyans by completely stalling the fight against grand larceny and all manner of thieving. Retired Anglican Church of Kenya Archbishop Eliud Wabukala has lived all his adult life preaching the Gospel of the Risen Christ. Indeed, that he is a practising Christian was his best and only asset. The MPs, on the floor of the House took this specific attribute and ran away with it. They dramatised how, therefore, he was best suited to chair the anti-graft agency. And this is where drama ends. For the Most Rev Wabukala to be referred to as “Archbishop” is to confirm that the man is deeply schooled, firmly grounded in his religious beliefs and has been on a conscious and deliberate mission as a disciple of Christ. Mathew 18:21-22, “Then Peter came up and said to him, “Lord, how often shall my brother sin...” Christ commands His followers to forgive a brother 70 times seven. And it is not discretionary. It is a mandatory prerequisite to everything Christian for every believer. Accordingly, this is the singular disqualification for the nomination of Archbishop (Rtd) Wabukala to the chair of the EACC. NEW TESTAMENT Fighting corruption requires a ruthlessness that is irreconcilable with the provisions of the New Testament. A vindictiveness that would suffocate a disciple of Christ. A ferocious penchant for blood that is not a gift of the Holy Spirit. A meanness and bare knuckle combat with con men is different from serving the Holy Communion. At the EACC, jailing fraudsters should be the chairman’s daily creed. The war against corruption is way beyond prayer and fasting. Granted, thieves, liars, scoundrels, fraudsters and all sinners urgently require prayers. But Kenyans want to see thieves jailed, and for a long, long time. At independence, Singapore, a former colony of Britain was a country with endemic corruption. Mr Lee Kuan Yew’s People’s Action Party captured power on the platform of zero tolerance for corruption. When they took power in 1959, the party top echelons and members wore white shirts and white trousers to symbolise their determination to keep the government clean and incorruptible. In fact, their slogan was, “You want to fight corruption? Then, be ready to send to jail your friends and relatives”. Mr Lee, being the Prime Minister, was investigated with his family and friends by the Bureau of Corruption Investigation. Many of his ministers and friends found guilty were jailed. The gospel of forgiveness, the only arsenal in Wabukala’s armoury would be useful after thieves have served full terms in jail. SUSPECT'S BURDEN The anti-corruption Act of Singapore, whose highlight was “The Presumption of Guilt”, put the burden of proof of innocence on the suspect. This would be a chilling message in Kenya. In 2010 in Taiwan, a record 12 Judges together with prosecutors and lawyers were charged with corruption. To haul so many judges and lawyers to the dock calls for spine. In Tanzania, crooks and economic saboteurs have run into headwinds. A strong executive led by President John Magufuli has everyone running scared. Love him or hate him, his style is a trifle short of rough and instant justice. He is the stuff that an anti-corruption crusader is made of. Tough, brave, uncompromising. His name elicits terror in the minds of thieves. And that is what we need in Kenya. RADICAL APPROACH With a chief executive having thrown his hands in the air publicly, acknowledging that corruption is unstoppable, we need a new radical approach. Anyone who has been hired to chair the anti-corruption agency was under the illusion that their brief was to fight corruption. It took a couple of months before they learned that they were only hired to be paid (not to earn) a salary and in mere fulfilment of irritable legal, constitutional and statutory obligations. Former chairman Harun Mwau shot himself in the foot before it all began. The Shakespeare-quoting Judge Aaron Ringera did not quote any known Kenyan gangster for jailing. The eloquent Prof P.L.O. Lumumba ran out of words, packed his bags and went back to teaching law. Mumo Matemu, a tax collector had no returns to file for Kenyans. Philip Kinisu from PricewaterhouseCoopers received a warning shot, literally, and is still reeling in shock. If the corrupt had something to fear whenever a new chairman was appointed, this time they can go to sleep, emboldened by the unshakable faith of the new chairman in the Gospel according to Mathew. Wabukala should have applied for a job as a chaplain. Otherwise, his title of Archbishop Emeritus is at stake. His congregation at All Saints Cathedral in Nairobi needs him. Among them are thieves and looters who need salvation.  Kutete Matimbai is a lawyer and child protection officer based in Bungoma. matimba@gmail.com  