Voter registration is quickly turning into the newest frontier for political contest. Leaders across the political divide have aggressively come out to get their supporters to register as voters and ultimately cast their ballots. Registering and voting is a democratic right and a citizen’s obligation. All eligible voters must be encouraged to exercise this important civic duty. However, we are alarmed by some over-enthusiastic and over-bearing fellows who are threatening citizens over voter registration. Reports are emerging from different regions where governors, political leaders and lobbies such as business groups are threatening to sanction those without voter cards. In some counties, the residents are being warned that those without a voter’s card will not get services in government offices or be allowed to transact business in markets. This is illegal and unacceptable. Voting is a solemn duty, but nobody should be coerced or threatened to get a voter’s card. Not voting is equally a constitutional right and should be respected. For those not keen, the best thing is to explain and persuade them, but not force them. For that amounts to the rule of the jungle, where some fellows make and enforce illegal decrees. Such acts remind us of the heady days of Kanu single-party rule of the 1980s, when citizens were compelled to take membership cards failing which drastic sanctions were taken against them. No one would go and do business at the local market without a Kanu card; an illegality that was forcefully executed by some rag-tag party youths. Unfortunately, the reason why voter registration has become the epicentre of combat is because voting has been turned into an ethnic census. Political coalitions, which are essentially an amalgam of ethnic entities, want to herd their kindred into voting blocs and use their numeric strength to wrest power. Nothing is debasing. Citizens have been turned into voting machines. As we have said before, we implore all eligible voters without cards to register and use them at the polls to determine the national leadership. But we condemn those coercing the people to register — it is illegal and objectionable.  