The fact that Jubilee finds it necessary to disparage the proposed National Super Alliance (NASA) of the opposition, suggests that it is a good idea. Indeed, it may even explain the sudden panic that has gripped Jubilee, with the frantic efforts to amend the just passed — and negotiated — election amendments, even before the ink was dry. Were NASA not a formidable idea, capable of shaking the arrogance that Jubilee has exhibited and make the forthcoming elections a close contest, the “upende usipende” culture of the horrible Kanu regime of yesteryears would not have resurfaced. For now, NASA only seems to be about beating Jubilee. But given the mess that Jubilee has wrought in this country — runaway corruption; tenderpreneurs gorging at the slaughter; a rise in uninhibited tribalism and chauvinism; massive debt that will surely bear us further down; an invisible growth rate amidst rising inflation, joblessness and weak business performance; a security force that kills poor people with impunity and whose extortion habits have no equal globally; a culture that does not value or understand conservation, climate change or environmental protection; and an approach determined to take us back to the one-party dictatorship, destroying our democratic gains, civil society and the Constitution — this is not a bad goal in and of itself. But removing Jubilee is not enough. Nor should it be, for within those interested in NASA, and amidst some who do have an agenda for Kenya, are some unsavoury characters, whose major beef is that they are not eating at the trough. So like the NARC of 2002, a proactive agenda is needed that can bind NASA so that no matter who is the candidate vying against Mr Uhuru Kenyatta, we can be certain of a progressive non-reducible agenda. Back in 2002, it was clear that there was more to NARC than just removing the horrible KANU regime from power. There was a promise to allow for more democratic space; an agreement to fight corruption, including the famous zero tolerance approach to corruption that captivated Kenyans; an agenda to build a nation from the diverse tribes; provision of free primary education; and a commitment to not just a more pro-business approach but also to creating jobs. While some of the agenda items were fulfilled quickly — notably the free primary education — some of them fell by the wayside. There was also the liberalisation and expansion of the economy and a real economic growth rate that is partly the reason for the terrible traffic jams in Nairobi, Mombasa, Nakuru and Eldoret. The democratic space expanded as Mr Mwai Kibaki exhibited an admirable thick skin but also showed he was amenable to public pressure on some issues. But the corruption agenda failed quickly, too, perhaps because President Kibaki became ill and others took over the running of the government but feared being out of power without having accumulated sufficiently. And as corruption erupted again, the promise of less tribalism went out the window as these “others” sought to justify and legitimise their illegalities, by making it seem like a tribal agenda. NASA needs to learn from NARC and its approach, making sure that it does not repeat the mistakes of the past, for within it are people itching to eat rather than serve Kenyans. And the best time to set the agenda is now, before the more difficult negotiations on the candidate and division of portfolios. At present, only Philip Murgor has articulated any sort of coherent agenda, and NASA would be wise to bring him in. Mr Murgor is clear on corruption and tribalism and could offer a wind of fresh air, and as an antidote to the more malignant characters that could make up NASA. Yes, he was overly cosy with the Mois decades ago, but he brought a vitality, doggedness and tenacity as Director of Public Prosecutions in the early NARC days that wrought fear among many. It is crucial that NASA puts up a strong anti-corruption agenda, starting from the top, for as Mr Murgor asserts: “If people know that the top is clean, and that it has the stamina and determination to root out corruption, a substantial amount of corruption will fizzle away on its own.” mkiai2000@yahoo.com  