The campaigns for the forthcoming elections kicked into the next gear following the start of the mass voter registration exercise. Predictably politicians of all colours switched into campaign mode with the predictable gusto we have all have come to expect from them. However, none is raising the cardinal question: for what reason are we registering to vote and what consequence would my voting have? This question is germane partly because voting in Kenya has become routine. It has grown from a civic action of consequence to a Pavlovian exercise in uncritical genuflection. It is an exercise we repeat every five years, with a tempo that starts with loud ululation or complaints about successful or compromised elections in which our candidate did or did not win to mass complaints about the performance of those in power. This is then followed with a new crescendo that starts with the mass voter registration, followed by heated campaigns, balloting and a lull that follows the announcement of winner. At this point the cycle begins again. When an exercise of such consequence becomes routine, it discredits the vote and disempowers the voter. It does this precisely because campaigns lack content and voting is emptied off any choice or consequence. Voting becomes an exercise in choicelessness since the winner is held up to no particular expectation or standards. There is no major issue the exercise is meant to resolve and no expectations from citizens that any significant change will result from their exercising the civic responsibility to vote. WHO ARRIVE A key characteristic of this choicelessness is the number of characters who arrive on the stage around election time with claims and counterclaims about elections. Take for instance the former TNA Secretary General Onyango Oloo. I recall the infantile authoritarian gusto he exhibited at the burial of the late Prof. William Ochieng. Just because he held the presidential speech, he insisted that he must be the last person to speak. In his strange logic, his person was transformed into the president simply because he held the presidential speech. It took Prof. Peter Anyang Nyong’o to call the bluff by reminding all present that the days of such silly authoritarianism antics ended. There have been unsurprising recent reports that Onyango Oloo had revealed how they got President Uhuru Kenyatta elected in 2013. In ‘revealing’ these details, he sought to justify his defection to the opposition and gain sympathy for his belated remorse. Yet, anyone who has carefully followed Kenyan electoral politics did not hear anything new. Some of the details being ‘revealed’ are in fact contained in the documents filed in the court petition against the announcement of Uhuru Kenyatta as President in 2013. ARE IMPRESSED I am sure that there are some in the opposition who are impressed by the gymnastics involved here. But all that this uncritical embrace of late defectors does is to further water down the credibility of the opposition by dissolving the line separating them from the incumbent. It is by dissolving this line that one confronts the choicelessness voters face. This situation poses the question: why register to vote if our political actors are constantly delegitimising the vote? Few have raised this question. The voters in Isiolo who “threatened to boycott the ongoing mass voter registration if the government fails to address the water shortage being experienced in the area” are more civic-minded citizens. Those others who have identified and contrasted the energy politicians show in mobilising us to register to vote while they remain lukewarm about water rationing or the persisting doctors or lecturers strike are a more civic-minded people. Our politicians have lost all sense of shame. They cannot be shamed into action for the benefit of human decency and a better future for Kenyans. We need to make these elections a moment to restore the power of voting, a moment to act in favour of human dignity.  Godwin Murunga teaches at the University of Nairobi.  