The heat is being turned on National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale in the wake of a sound clip circulating on social media in which a voice is heard calling for the barring of a neighbouring Bantu community from registering as voters in Garissa. Reacting to the clip on Friday, six Ukambani leaders, led by Kitui Senator David Musila, called for the arrest of Mr Duale, accusing him of inciting one community against another and hate-mongering for political reasons. In the recording, a voice is heard calling for the stationing of youths at polling stations to bar members of the community in Garissa from getting voter cards. A similar call was made by former Lagdera MP Farah Maalim Mohamed, who will be contesting for the Garissa Township parliamentary seat currently held by Mr Duale. “You should have five youths at every polling station and if you are arrested because of violence, you will be released. I will pay your bills and all costs,” says the man alleged to be Mr Duale in the clip. DUALE TRASHES CLIP On Thursday, Mr Duale dismissed the sound clip as a fake, saying it was the work of his political detractors. He said the clip is neither audible nor verifiable. At Parliament on Friday, Mr Musila, who read a statement on behalf of the six MPs present, urged the Kamba community to stay calm. He said they would not be forced out of the region, adding that it was within their rights to settle where they wished. “We are asking our people to stay calm as we wait for government’s response on the matter, failure to which we will call for a meeting and decide the way forward. We will continue defending our people wherever they are,” said Mr Musila. The leaders said the community had already suffered from attacks by herders from across the Tana River, which separates Kitui and Garissa counties, and the utterances could fuel more attacks. They said 20 people had been killed in the past one year. Mr Duale is facing stiff opposition from Mr Mohamed, a former deputy Speaker in Parliament, in his bid to keep the Garissa Township seat. On Friday, Mr Mohamed called on the state to get Mr Duale to answer to charges of hate speech and incitement to violence in court. Speaking after recording a statement at the Directorate of Criminal Investigations headquarters, Mr Mohamed urged President Uhuru Kenyatta to walk the talk on his tough stance on hate speech. SELECTIVE APPLICATION “We have evidence to prove that indeed it is the majority leader’s voice captured in an audio recording calling for a certain community not to be allowed to register in Garissa Township constituency. “We want to see whether this government’s pronouncements and actions on hate speech and incitement are only designed as a selective application of the law where some people can flout the law the way they want while others are made to live by the law,” he said. Kitui MPs Bernad Kitungi (Mwingi West), Charles Nyamai (Kitui Rural) and John Munuve (Mwingi North) yesterday also rebuked Mr Duale. Mr Kitungi called on Inspector-General of Police Joseph Boinnet to ensure Mr Duale is arrested. “Mr Duale has been on record making reckless [statements] against our community. Mr Nyamai demanded that Mr Duale apologise or take full responsibility for anything that would happen to its members living in Garissa. Mr Munuve said it would be unfortunate if such utterances truly emanated from a national figure like Mr Duale. “I cannot say he (Mr Duale) made the utterances, because I don’t expect such words to come from a national leader like him,” Mr Munuve told the Nation by phone. He noted that more than 800 people from his constituency were working in Garissa and cautioned leaders against making remarks meant to fuel violence for political gain. Also criticising Mr Duale were Kitui County Assembly Minority Leader Alex Nganga, Kitui National Youth Council Chair Aggrey Nzomo and Campbell Munyambu, a leader of a Mwingi association of business and professionals.  