Two sons of slain drug baron Ibrahim Akasha and two foreigners have been extradited to the US, Reuters has reported. The news agency stated a law enforcement official and an investigator confirmed that the four men had been flown to the US. The police officers declined to provide further details and asked not to be named because the case is ongoing. Baktash Akasha and his brother Ibrahim, Ghulam Hussein and Indian national Vijaygiri Goswami were arrested on Saturday. SENIOR OFFICERS The four were to appear in court on Monday but their lawyer, Cliff Ombeta, said his clients had been arrested. Mr Ombeta moved to the High Court to have his clients produced in court, saying they were being held incommunicado and that the detention was an abuse of their basic human rights. The lawyer claimed that three senior police officers were involved in the arrest. Following the application, High Court Judge Njoki Mwangi ordered Inspector-General of Police Joseph Boinnet and Director of Criminal Investigations Ndegwa Muhoro to produce the four in court. Justice Mwangi also restrained and prohibited the officers from removing the four, who were facing extradition proceedings, out of the court’s jurisdiction. Later, Mr Ombeta said he is treating as a rumour reports indicating that his clients have already been extradited. IMMIGRATION Mr Ombeta on Tuesday said he was pursuing the application he has filed at the High Court based on the belief that his clients are in Kenya. “Until someone comes and confirms, at the end of the day maybe the rumour has been flown around for us to stop the application because it has consequences,” said Mr Ombeta. The lawyer said he had reliable information that the four suspects did not go through Jomo Kenyatta International Airport in Nairobi. “In Nairobi, I have checked at Wilson and Mombasa (airports) they also say they could not have passed through there. They said that for anyone to board a plane the immigration must know who the person is. None of the people with the description of our clients have been taken through them (immigration),” said Mr Ombeta.   Existing order directs that suspects not be moved out of Mombasa without court orders.