Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero was on Tuesday confronted by angry ODM aspirants, who told him before party leader Raila Odinga that he had lost touch with the electorate. In a rare show of defiance, the aspirants told Dr Kidero in his face that he had abandoned the electorate and that it was hard to get access to him as he is always surrounded by heavily built security men who turn away anyone seeking his ear. They told him that he will have a hard time recapturing his seat due to resistance and stiff competition from Jubilee. For the past two days, the governor has been accompanying Mr Odinga around the city to urge residents to register in large numbers as voters as he seeks to consolidate support for his re-election bid. On Tuesday, Dr Kidero accompanied Mr Odinga to a meeting with the party’s Nairobi aspirants at Nyayo Stadium Gymnasium, where the aspirants took the opportunity to tell him how he had lost touch with them. According to Paul Ogolla, who is seeking the Harambee Ward seat, Dr Kidero had only started touring parts of the city recently after years of being unapproachable. “I can say that Dr Kidero came to my garage in Ngara when he was new in Nairobi and I took him around asking for votes, but after he was elected, he stopped interacting with us,” said Mr Ogolla. Mr Ogolla said the governor's security keeps away people who want to talk to him. He said Dr Kidero had lost touch on the ground and he should redeem himself by involving grassroots leaders who would help him retain his seat. Emma Isalambo, who is eyeing the Mountain View Ward seat, also told off the governor, saying Dr Kidero should now start working with other leaders if he wanted to be re-elected in August. Another aspirant interrupted the party leader chanting that Dr Kidero was in Jubilee. He was, however, roughed up by angry youths before Mr Odinga prevailed upon them to let him express his opinion. CONCERNS NOTED Dr Kidero said he had noted the leaders’ concerns and everything would change and that he was open to anyone who needs his assistance. “I have heard your complaints and I am ready to welcome anybody who wants my attention. My office is open to all,” said Dr Kidero. Mr Odinga, however, came to the defence of Dr Kidero following accusations that the governor deserted his supporters soon after he was elected in 2013, urging them to remain united in ODM so as to deliver victory. He said the party’s aim is to have as many registered supporters as possible. The Jubilee Party is still weighing its options and trying to decide who can defeat Dr Kidero, with the party seemingly divided into two groups — one led by Peter Kenneth and another by Nairobi Senator Mike Sonko. Others seeking to unseat Dr Kidero include Dagoretti South MP Dennis Waweru, former TNA chairman Johnson Sakaja and former Starehe MP Margaret Wanjiru. Businesswoman Esther Passaris, Philip Kisia and Miguna Miguna have also shown interest in the seat.  