Pineapple is a fruit loved by many in the tropics where it is grown due to its numerous benefits. In Kenya, the fruit is mainly consumed in its traditional form. However, alternative utilisation is gaining currency as many seek to increase the shelf-life of the fruit through processing. Wine, powder, candy, jam, ketchup and juice are some of the products you can make from pineapple and here is how. 1.Juice Requirements: Ripe pineapples, sugar, citric acid and sodium benzoate. Procedure: Wash and peel the pineapples to remove eyes. Crush them thoroughly to extract juice. To increase juice yield, water can be added to the pulp. To the juice add citric acid (0.3 per cent), sodium benzoate (0.5 per cent) and sugar (a cup, quantity of sugar may change depending on need). The juice is heated to 80OC for five minutes with constant stirring. It is the filled into cans or glass jars while hot (hot filling) and sealed immediately. Thereafter, it is warmed in boiling water for a further 15 minutes. The juice is then cooled and ready for consumption. 2.Wine Requirements: Pineapples, sugar, yeast (2 per cent) and water. Procedure: Set up a fermentation bin with a cover containing a tube connected to a water jar, which will be used to monitor the process. Wash the pineapples, peel and de-core then cut into small pieces. Crush the pineapple pieces to extract the juice. Then add an equal amount of water and sterilise by boiling for 15 minutes. Let it cool to room temperature then add yeast (2 per cent of the extracted juice). Add sugar (30 per cent of the extracted juice) and mix well. Let it stand for seven days then siphon out the supernatant. Consumption can begin from day seven but if matured (allow it to stand in bottles) for longer the flavour improves. 3.Powder Pineapple powder is highly valued as a sweetener and has a shelf-life of up to six months. Dried pineapples can also be packed separately as a product. Requirements: Pineapples. Wash the fruits and cut into small pieces. Blanch the pineapples in boiling water for five minutes and immerse in cold portable water and dry until they become brittle. Then crush and package in airtight container. Improved technology, however, suggests the extraction of juice which is dried and powdered. This requires sophisticated technology which cannot be applied at home. 4.Candy Requirements: Pineapple (1) and four cups of sugar. Procedure: Sort ripe, non-defective pineapples, peel, de-core and cut into cubes. Prepare syrup by adding two parts of sugar to one part of water. Boil the pineapple cubes in the syrup for 20 minutes.    Remove from fire and let them stay overnight. Strain the excess syrup and run water through for five minutes. Dry using a solar drier for 16 hours. Pack in a plastic bag sealing the open side using a candle flame. 5.Jam Requirements: Pineapples, 6kg (peeled), sugar 3kg and lemon juice 50ml. Procedure: Select ripe and non-defect pineapples. Wash in clean drinking water and allow to drip. Peel the pineapples and de-core. Cut the fruit into small slices and transfer to a pot and simmer for 15 minutes under low heat while stirring. Add 1kg of sugar and dissolve rapidly. Cook under high heat while stirring for 30 minutes. Add the lemon juice and the remaining sugar (2kg) and mix thoroughly while cooking. When the jam has reached its setting point and begins to thicken, remove from the fire. Fill while hot in sterile glass jars leaving 1.5cm head space before closing the jars tightly. 6. Chutney (sauce) Requirements: Pineapple (1), half-a-cup raisins, a cup of sugar, a cup of vinegar, a tablespoon of garlic, a tablespoon of cinnamon, a tablespoon of ginger and a teaspoon of chili powder. Procedure: Select ripe pineapple, wash, peel and slice. Boil the slices together with all the ingredients until they are soft and the juice is thick. Remove from the source of heat and hot-fill into sterile glass jars leaving 1cm to the brim. Cover immediately and invert. Let it cool. Deborah is based at the Department of Dairy, Food Science and Technology, Egerton University.   The bus stop at Chabera township in Nyamira County is always abuzz with traders hawking fresh farm produce that include bulb onions, maize, bananas and pineapples.