The freedom of speech and expression is a right enshrined in the Constitution of Kenya 2010. It is absolute and universal. Everyone should be enabled to make their voices, however feeble, heard. The principle applies, nay, should apply to the high as it applies to the low. And that is why it troubles the peace lover that some people have abrogated themselves the duty to determine who should and who should not speaker where and when. Since the beginning of the mass voter registration exercise by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) on January 16, there have been disturbing reports that some leaders are heckled, booed and sometimes chased from some places whenever they attempt to address the respective residents in a bid to persuade them to enlist as voters in readiness for the August 8 general election. That as a country we still need to be persuaded to take up a civic duty of the magnitude of registering to vote is unfortunate enough. But to chase away leaders who have taken their time and resources to remind us of our responsibility, right and power at this time in the history of civilised governance is absurd and self-defeatist. Regardless of how one feels about the political affiliation of the speaker, one should not deny others their right to speak. The listener also retains the right to listen or shut their ears and possibly stay away. Pelting others with stones or heckling belongs to the primitive and criminal. It is an abuse to law and order and should not only be discouraged and condemned but also punished. LAST WEEKEND During President Uhuru Kenyatta’s voter registration sensitisation tour of the larger Meru last weekend, for instance, there were reports that supporters of the various local leaders and aspirants in the county disregarded their near-unanimous love and support for the president and engaged in unruly shouting matches that made it difficult for some scheduled speakers to make their points. With others lighting fires, burning party materials and howling, it was, from the videos shared extensively on social media, even hard to decipher what the protests were all about. A few days earlier, Deputy President William Ruto’s meeting in Narok was also reportedly disrupted when a crowd apparently dissatisfied with a few local leaders in the DP’s entourage chose to be the ones choosing who to speak. Mayhem ensued and Mr Ruto was compelled to take charge himself and restore order for the function to continue. On Monday this week, a similar behaviour was exhibited during a tour by the deputy president in Bungoma. There are allegations that some competing political leaders are behind the planning and implementation of these incidents of rowdy behaviour with a sole aim of painting their competitors as unpopular and therefore not worthy the support of the visiting luminaries and their parties. This mainly is a product of intraparty rivalries and we hear it is a move meant to influence the pending party primaries. There is also the tendency of the Opposition trying to zone off areas it considers its strongholds against possible infiltration by the Government and vice versa. Whatever the interests and motivation, the entire effort is not only wrong and misadvised but also counterproductive, especially at the time when the overriding mission is to get as many people as possible to register as voters. It defeats logic for instance how the failure to have a national leader who you all profess to support address your potential voters will help you attain your objective of beating your rival at the polls! HEIGHTENED POLITICS The time of heightened politics is here with us and all political merchants might be tempted to pull all strings and flex their muscles to be seen the most attractive. But let them be careful not to overdo themselves as to self-destroy. It is almost a fact that when one uses incitement to disorder against an opponent, the same people will be used by another opponent under different circumstances, against them. It is only a voter registration exercise, there will be nominations and then the election will come. How can one be sure that the crowds they are using to burn party T-shirts, for instance, will not turn around to burn their own campaign materials when it serves them right? And for those stronghold advocates, watch out lest you suffer from your own curse. When seeking national leadership, one of the biggest mistakes you can ever make is to celebrate when your competitors are humiliated in your assumed backyards. This only serves to remind all those in as close as the next village to associate you with homestead bullying and arrogance where the closer one is to you, the more entitled they will feel to your leadership, and more alienated those considered distant will fear being treated. The latter are always the majority and if they chose to fear you, they are likely to vote for the competition. Whatever we do during this politically active time, let us live and let live.  Michael Cherambos is a social, political and economic commentator based in Nairobi. michaelcherambos@gmail.com  