Education Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i has been rightly lauded for the reforms he has brought to a sector which, for a number of years, had fallen into suspicion as a den of cheating and fraud. The emphasis on strict invigilation and the swift release of results are all changes that deserve praise. The mark of a good leader, though, is intellectual humility and the capacity to accept criticism offered in a constructive spirit. The Kenya National Union of Teachers has offered a detailed critique of the examination results which cannot be easily dismissed. In particular, they have raised questions about the raw numbers. Is it really possible that 33,399 students scored a clean ‘E’ in a normally marked national examination? Around the world, the teachers contend, it is the case that the bulk of students will be found in the middle of the scale on both ends of excellent and mediocre. It takes a stretch of the imagination, the teachers argue, to accept that the precipitous fall of the number of ‘A’ students from 2,685 in 2015 to 141 in the latest national examination results is solely explained by allegations of cheating in past examinations. The teachers have made a number of criticisms of the way the examinations were marked this time round. The examiners did not engage in the exercise known as moderation of grades, for example, a practice that takes into account general performance levels, mistakes in examination papers and the subject of the paper being sat. Standard cut-off marks will put those that excel in the sciences at a disadvantage compared to those whose strengths lies in the humanities. This considerable deviation in the normal curve has significant consequences for learners. Fully 437,440 candidates representing 76 per cent of those who sat the exams scored below a C plain, meaning they are effectively barred from pursuing university education locally. Tens of thousands of others do not qualify for any elementary tertiary education. It could well be true as Dr Matiang’i and Prof George Magoha, head of the Kenya National Examinations Council, have said that these results reflect the true performance of students without cheating. However, the teachers’ concerns cannot be dismissed and deserve to be met with a transparent and far-reaching inquiry to ensure that thousands of students are not punished by an overzealous over-correction of past ills.  