National Super Alliance (Nasa) Chief Strategist David Ndii was tracked and threatened before his arrest on Sunday night, his wife Mwende Gatabaki has revealed. The revelation came on Monday even Mrs Ndii shared details of the arrest, which happened at Leopard Beach Resort and Spa in Kwale County. SEARCH She said her husband was taken as her 11-year daughter watched. “Seven officers came two were armed with guns. The approached my husband as he was together with our daughter heading to the dining room," said Mrs Ndii, who was accompanied by Mombasa Deputy Governor William Kingi at Treasury Square. "They approached him and said they wanted to have a word him. After knowing that they were officers, he requested for my phone since he was not carrying any and made some calls before the officers drove (him) away." She said the officers told her they were taking her husband to Diani Police Station but she did not find him there when she arrived about 10 minutes later. “When we got there, we were actually surprised he was not there and it is here that the police asked us to get back to the hotel, where they searched and got nothing,” said Mrs Ndii. She said when she returned to the police station, she was detained for a few minutes before Nasa leader Raila Odinga's daughter Winnie came and she was released. Mrs Ndii said they were shocked to see her husband arrested because they were at the Coast for holidays and not doing anything political. DCI NAIROBI “We had come for a wedding on Saturday and proceeded for holiday with our daughter, who has closed the school,” said Mrs Ndii. On the threats that her husband has been facing, Mrs Ndii said state officers have always trailed him.  “There is always a car which comes and parks outside our gate. They normally come whenever we are not in the house and they pretend to be looking for some people around but we know what they have been looking for,” she said. Mrs Ndii said, as a family, their security is not assured. On reports that her husband is in Nairobi DCI headquarters, Mrs Ndii said: “I do not believe this people and it’s because of how they handled us since yesterday. Lying to us like children” She demanded the release of Dr Ndii, saying he is not a criminal. KENYATTA “In the political world you never know what is serious and what is not. I believe in him and he is not a criminal,” she said. Mrs Ndii, who is an ICT expert, further accused President Uhuru Kenyatta of targeting his family. She said it was Mr Kenyatta who contacted the President of African Development Bank requesting for her to come and champion digital transformation of government. “I am one of those people called Diaspora. President Uhuru Kenyatta is the one who made that special request to see me coming and I am asking the President today, where is that man who brought me back to this country to create that single source of truth project?,” asked Mrs Ndii. She added: “Where is that gentleman who in 2014 asked me to come and create a single source of truth to create transparency in Kenya? This is not transparent. My husband is not a criminal. My husband is not corrupt, he has never taken anything from public resources. He has not committed any crime that people know of.” 
  
Detectives used a photograph to identify the economist after goofing at Leisure Lodge in Diani.
