The question of value systems has been the subject of recent conversations with some African colleagues.  More precisely, is it possible to reclaim or rebuild progressive and positive values in societies once they decay, as they have in Kenya and many other African societies?  Only someone from Mars will deny that our once vaunted value systems — whether African, Islamic, Christian or whatever — have not rotted from within and without. Where we once focused on the community — Ubuntu or Utu — we now focus on self. Africa produced the concept of “I am what I am because of who we all are” but we have faded far from that. We are the continent with the fastest growing Christian and Muslim populations. But we are also the continent that cheers intolerance the most.  NEIGHBOURS We hate our neighbours because they are different in religion, tribe, political or sexual orientation; we support killings of the poor; cheerlead our corrupt and wicked leaders because they come from “our” tribe; and steal with impunity, as though these things are allowed in the Holy Books that we quote with abandon. In fact, more often than not, it is religious leaders, and those who pontificate their religiosity the loudest, who are at the forefront of these new rotten values!  In fact, if someone strongly asserts that they are born again Christians or ostentatiously demands to pray five times a day, best be very weary of them, especially if there are finances involved! Today our culture and value system is one that celebrates easy wealth; one that favours the cruel manipulation and conning of others; one that endorses the stealing of anything and everything including votes; one that is incredibly intolerant of other views and seeks to destroy them; and one that believes that might is right. SHORT TERM Our present value system is one that is immediate and short term, barely looking ahead at what we will collectively leave for our children and grandchildren in terms of heritage and common goods, opting to amass as much as possible for the now, and perhaps to endow our biological kids for their future. This existing culture of “me only” and might is right was in public display this past Tuesday when Uhuru Kenyatta was inaugurated.  Like the millions of Americans who reject Donald Trump as their president, I am among the millions of Kenyans who reject Mr Kenyatta’s claim to office following the stolen and irredeemably corrupt elections of August and October. He is not my president! ILLEGITIMATE REGIME But should my rejection of Mr Kenyatta mean that I get brutalised or killed? Should we all be forced into accepting an illegitimate regime? Surely if he is confident and sure of his legitimacy why should he fear anyone gathering elsewhere to show displeasure?  Or was he perhaps bothered by the fact that the crowds at the funeral service may have outshone his in much the same way the Women’s March in Washington DC in January vastly outshone Mr Trump’s inauguration crowd? Mr Kenyatta sent out an ominous sign when he unleashed violence and death on innocent Kenyans. Yet, no matter how he got himself into office he could still gain legitimacy by opening up, rather than closing down.  PROTECT RIGHTS But he seems torn on these matters, doing the right thing when he makes it easy for Africans to visit Kenya, and East Africans to work here, but not extending the same openness to Kenyans themselves to express themselves, work to protect rights even when that means opposing him and his directives. And for those who favour dictatorship in Kenya, especially those from the Gikuyu community who believe that people in power are omniscient—perhaps because they are getting favours now—be careful what you wish for.  DICTATORIAL REGIME It may well be that you are benefiting now, morally and financially, but it is best to always imagine your worst enemy exercising the dictatorial powers you recommend for Mr Kenyatta, for his days in power will end. Remember the first Kenyatta dictatorial regime was followed by the horrors of the Moi regime that many in the Gikuyu community opposed vigorously. If you think that a future Ruto regime will maintain your status, you clearly do not know Kenya. Maina Kiai is a human rights activist and co-director at InformAction. mkiai2000@yahoo.com  
 