Highly sought after Bollywood actress Kareena Kapoor visits Kenya One of the biggest names in Bollywood Kareena Kapoor was in Nairobi last weekend for a photo shoot for a cover of a leading magazine. Ms Kapoor is an Indian actress, the daughter of actors Randhir and Babita Kapoor and the younger sister of actress Karisma Kapoor. Kapoor was in Nairobi courtesy of Indian designer Manish Malhotra who showcased his latest collection dubbed Sensual Affair at an invite only affair held at Two Rivers Mall. The event was exclusively sponsored by Victoria Commercial Bank which treated their special clients to a fashionable experience. The runway show featured 26 Kenyan models from Mochez Models and 15 International Models from India. Kapoor graced the runway as the showstopper of the event. Pakistani singer Sarmad Qadeer also hit the stage with an exciting performance while DJ Deeshal was on the decks. The event was organised by Ranee Productions. Kapoor is noted for playing a variety of characters in a range of film genres from romantic comedies to crime dramas. Kapoor is the recipient of several awards, including six Filmfare Awards, and is one of Bollywood’s most popular and highest-paid actresses. After making her acting debut in the 2000 war film Refugee, Kapoor established herself in Hindi cinema with roles in the historical drama Aoka, and the blockbuster melodrama Kabhi Khushi Kabhie Gham.  She is married to actor Saif Ali Khan, with whom she has a son. Kapoor’s off-screen life is the subject of widespread coverage in India. She has a reputation for being outspoken and assertive, and is recognised for her contributions to the film industry through her fashion style and film roles. In addition to acting, Kapoor is a stage performer and has contributed as a co-author to three books: an autobiographical memoir and two nutrition guides. She has also launched her own clothing line in association with the retail chain Globus. For the cover of Harper’s Bazaar Bride, Kapoor weaved magic in a white corset in sheer with extravagant icy blue embellishments on it. A neckpiece set in diamonds and emeralds from Rosentiques Fine Jewellery added elegance to the actor’s attire but what really stunned everyone was her fierce make-up. Makeup artist Mickey Contractor chose to give the actor dark and smokey eyes, which exuded mystery and sultriness and rounded it off with a nude lip and sleek hair. The renowned fashion designer Malhotra featured muse Kapoor as the show-stopper who wore an impressive designer dress from Manish’s Nairobi collection which made her look ethereal and regal as she walked the ramp. “Forever my muse the very beautiful Kareena Kapoor #magical on the mirror ramp,” commented Manish Malhotra on his Instagram account. *** Avengers: Infinity War trailer is out A decade of movies has brought superhero and epic adventure fans to the end of a long road in the form of Avengers: Infinity War. An epic undertaking which gave many fans their first glimpse of a movie event that’s a decade in the making. The first teaser for Marvel’s Avengers: Infinity War was released this week. The two-minute trailer brought together nearly every major superhero in Disney’s Marvel Cinematic Universe. Captain America, Spider-Man, Black Widow, Doctor Strange all appeared in the dramatic trailer, which racked up nearly 50 million views on YouTube within 24 hours. The action-laden trailer gives more than just a glimpse, but an entire mouthful, of intense action, death-defying tricks, superhero collaborations and mash-ups, and hints at just what to expect in the next Marvel conglomerate of stars. Avengers: Infinity War is about Thanos’ trip to Earth to gather up Infinity Stones. He heads to Wakanda, home of Black Panther, where an Infinity Stone may lie, and according to the comic book The Children of Thanos, a group of lethal beings who accompany Thanos on his missions, manage to attack Vision, piercing his Mind Stone. It’s unclear from the trailer if this is Thanos, but what we can take away from the scene is Vision being targeted by nefarious forces and he suffers an enormous level of pain. The trailer opens with a nostalgic, yet a gloomy recollection of how the Avengers initiative first began. “There was an idea,” Nick Fury (Samuel L. Jackson) intones. “To bring together a group of remarkable people...” Tony continues, as Doctor Strange (Benedict Cumberbatch) and his fellow mystic Wong (Benedict Wong) find an interloper in the Sanctum Sanctorum: Bruce Banner (Mark Ruffalo), who’s come in via the roof. “So when they needed us, we could fight the battles...” is given to Thor (Chris Hemsworth), staring out of the portholes of a spaceship. The teaser included exciting scenes of the Avengers coming together to take on the Marvel super team’s biggest foe: Thanos. Infinity War is in many ways the culmination of everything that Marvel Studios has been working toward since its first film, Iron Man, in 2008. The franchise has made more than $13 billion dollars worldwide, interweaving films and characters, and is now looking at a future that may not include some of its most popular heroes. According to Kevin Feige, Marvel Studios’ president, the next phase of Marvel movies will be unlike anything audiences have seen before. “We’ve got another 20 movies on the docket that are completely different from anything that’s come before,” Feige told Vanity Fair earlier this week.  “There will be two distinct periods. Everything before [2019’s ‘Avengers 4’] and everything after.” Avengers: Infinity War hits theatres on May 4, 2018. 
 