The procedure for granting the Head of State Commendation (HSC) award has been questioned. This is after Martin Kamotho alias ‘Githeri Man’, journalist Jacque Maribe and bloggers Dennis Itumbi, Robert Alai, Pauline Njoroge and others were feted during Tuesday’s Jamhuri Day celebrations. The HSC is one of the presidential awards usually given to outstanding Kenyans who selflessly render their services to the country. Other recognition awards include the Order of the Grand Warrior, Distinguished Conduct Order, Distinguished Service Medal, Silver Star of Kenya and the Uhodari Medal. The list in the HSC category, which had 59 people, sparked uproar among Kenyans, with some taking to social media to criticise it while others said the award had lost meaning. ‘Githeri Man’ became famous after the August 8 election when a photograph of him eating githeri as he queued to vote, surfaced online. BLOGGERS “Head of State Commendation has now become an honour for partisan political party bloggers and their girlfriends.  Whoever is selecting them could do with a wider pool. I mean, not only political activists and bloggers are serving the interests of this great nation. I rest my case,” wrote George Akuno. Charles Wanyoro wrote: “Githeri man gets a Head of State Commendation. Apart from showing up to vote just like millions others, what else did he do? Anyway, congratulations to him.” Collins Ogutu was also not pleased and wrote: “Do anything silly and you receive a Head of State Commendation in Kenya.” Interior Cabinet Secretary Joseph Nkaissery’s widow, Hellen, boxer Fatuma Zarika, singer Ben Githae journalist Victor Muyakane – who was photographed saving a disabled beggar outside the Supreme Court a few months ago — were also feted. ATHLETES World Boxing Council Super Bantamweight Champion Fatuma Zarika, also among the recipients, a week ago punched out Zambian Catherine Phiri to retain her title. Others on the list are Jeremiah Chalwa, Moraa Mellissa, Joseph Njiraini, Mehmood Shahid, Dr Joseph Odhiambo, Esther Koskei, Sister Amollo Anastacia, evangelist Teresiah Wairimu and Billy Arocho. “There are several athletes, sportsmen and others who have branded Kenya in a very positive way, yet they have not been recognised,” Joyce Obino wrote on Facebook. Recipients of these awards are selected by the National Honours and Awards Committee which works in the Office of the President. They are guided by Section 4 of the National Honours Act which stipulates that people shall merit the conferment of a national honour if they exhibit exemplary qualities, actions or achievements of heroism, sacrifice, bravery, patriotism or leadership for the defence, benefit or betterment of the country or a county. GOVERNANCE “A person who has made an exemplary contribution to the country or a county in the economic, social, scientific, academic, public administration, governance, sports, journalism, business, security or other fields,” the law says in part. There are several committees which select Kenyans to receive the honours, among them National and County Governments Honours Advisory Committee, Parliamentary Honours Advisory Committee and the Judiciary Honours Advisory Committee. Despite criticism, some Kenyans were satisfied with the list. 
  
President Kenyatta leads Jamhuri Day festivities at Kasarani. 