The EU's top court ruled on Wednesday that Uber is an ordinary transportation company instead of an app and should be regulated as such, in a decision that will be closely watched around the world. The case is yet another thorn in the side for scandal-rocked Uber, which has drawn the fury of local taxi drivers and officials for flouting local regulations. It also comes the same week as one of its drivers admitted to the attempted rape and murder of a British embassy worker coming home from a night out in Beirut, Lebanon. READ: Uber heads to court in fight for London survival ALSO READ: Uber execs travel world to reassure regulators after controversies "The service provided by Uber connecting individuals with non-professional drivers is covered by services in the field of transport," said the Luxembourg-based European Court of Justice. "Member states can therefore regulate the conditions for providing that service." 'Mere service provider' Uber, the biggest name in the growing gig economy, claims it is a mere service provider, connecting consumers with drivers in more than 600 cities. But it has run into huge opposition from taxi companies and other competitors who say this allows it to dodge costly regulations such as training and licensing requirements for drivers and vehicles. The case was brought by a taxi drivers' association in the Spanish city of Barcelona, where belief runs high that Uber is a taxi company that should be subject to rules governing such vehicles. In a dense legal judgement, the ECJ said that Uber was a service that connects "by means of a smartphone application and for remuneration non-professional drivers using their own vehicle with persons who wish to make urban journeys." That means it is "inherently linked to a transport service and, accordingly, must be classified as a 'service in the field of transport' within the meaning of EU law." READ: Behind smiling driver of app hailing cab, lies sad cash tale A rough ride The EU court's senior adviser had said in a legal opinion in May that Uber was indeed a transport company. The company has rejected that argument, saying it will harm innovation. "To be considered a transport company will not change the regulations we are subject to in most European countries," a spokesman for Uber said. "It will however hurt the necessary reform of outdated laws which prevent millions of Europeans being able to find a reliable ride with just one click," the spokesman said. Uber has had a rough ride in Spain, where a judge ruled in 2014 that its UberPop service risked breaking the law, leading to the Barcelona submission to the ECJ. Early last year it decided to only operate a limited a version of its UberX service in Spain which uses licensed, professional drivers instead of the amateurs who had previously worked via the UberPop application. Uber has already had problems with the law in several European countries, particularly France where the company was forced to overhaul its business model. READ: Uber to insure Kenyan riders in new deal Lose licence In November a labour court in London, where the company is threatened with losing its licence, said it had to pay the drivers a minimum wage and give them paid leave. Uber does not employ drivers or own vehicles, but instead relies on private contractors with their own cars, allowing them to run their own businesses. Licensed taxi drivers meanwhile often have to undergo hundreds of hours of training, and they accuse Uber of endangering their jobs by using cheaper drivers who need a GPS to get around. 
 