Debate on Uganda’s presidential age limit was suspended Tuesday after opposition MPs protested alleged presence of soldiers at Parliament. Amuru District Woman MP Lucy Akello (FDC) told Parliament during the second day of age limit debate, that she found soldiers occupying both the Catholic and Anglican Chaplaincy prayer places in Parliament. CLAIMS The MPs question why soldiers are at Parliament yet the Speaker had assured them that they would be guarded by police officers. Ms Kadaga said she had suspended plenary until 2pm as she investigates the MPs’ claims. Some MPs said they found guns and urine in plastic bottles in the Catholic chapel. Parliament’s director of communications, Mr Chris Obore says: “Last week, the Speaker gave a directive that non-Parliament security be withdrawn from the precincts of Parliament. ‘‘It would be an abuse of the authority of the Speaker, if indeed its confirmed that there were other security personnel in the precincts.” 2021 ELECTIONS According to him, the Speaker was in the chamber and wouldn’t have known what was outside because she expected other organs to work. “If the soldiers were there without the knowledge of the Speaker then that was wrong,” he added. If passed, the bill will allow President Yoweri Museveni, now 73, to run in the 2021 elections when he will be over 75. The legislators are expected to debate and complete the voting on the bill before they break off for the festive holiday recess this week. “It is expected that we shall debate today (Tuesday) and tomorrow (Wednesday). Let us be tolerant to each other during this debate. At the end members will vote for and against the bill,” said Ms Kadaga, Speaker of Parliament. The committee report recommended that the presidential age limit be lifted while the minority report also presented before Parliament said it should stay. On Monday, Ms Kadaga suspended six opposition legislators over their conduct during the debate on the vote to remove the presidential age limit.  Additional reporting by Harry Misiko in Nairobi.  