The two-day Africa-EU summit in Abidjan, Cote d’Ivoire was held on the backdrop of an outcry against slavery in Libya. Slave trade, which thrust the issue of migration to the centre-stage, had earlier been revealed to the world in a CNN footage. At a time the world is besieged by myriad crises, the footage seems to have brought back the horrors of a bygone era. An incredulous world came face-to-face with the horrifying images of black Africans being auctioned in Libyan markets. The summit was a good break from a long period of politicking that saw first round polls raising acrimony in Kenya and Liberia. President Uhuru Kenyatta was confirmed the winner after a rerun of the poll, and ironically sworn in on November 28, the day the Cote d’Ivoire summit began. FRAUD The situation in Liberia remains worrying, though, after the Supreme Court acceded to claims that there was fraud during the first round of the October 10 general election. Four major political outfits, among them the governing Unity Party of President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, claimed that the latter attempted to rig the election. Following the postponement of the second round of the poll originally slated for November 7, the country was in the same kind of political limbo that Kenya was going through. Gratefully, though, there are reports that the date for the repeat election will be announced in the coming days. Back to the summit in Abidjan, it is one of many forums that are expected to pay special attention to migration matters. On Monday, a seminar will be held in Geneva, Switzerland, to discuss the contextual perspectives of migration in Africa. VIOLENT EXTREMISM Among the issues to be addressed are those of the so-called “Libyan gateway” and smuggling of people from the Horn of Africa. Also on the agenda will be migration and violent extremism and African laws on migration. A related event is the third International Conference on Global Food Security that opens in Cape Town, South Africa on Sunday. The Africa-EU summit in Abidjan brought together leaders from more than 80 countries. The summit focused on youth unemployment. Young people were widely recognised as being crucial for realising the goals of institutions. However, the youth agenda at the summit had to be downgraded amid calls for the evacuation of 3,800 migrants trapped in Libya. Amid claims that that there could be as many as 700,000 Africans trapped in Libya in at least 42 camps, that figure could just be the tip of the iceberg. ciugumwagiru@yahoo.co.uk  