A Thika Magistrate’s Court on Wednesday halved the bond terms for the four suspects of the KCB Thika branch robbery to Sh2 million each. The requirement of two sureties each however remained unchanged, even as Chief Magistrate Teresa Murigi ruled that, in the interest of justice, the suspects’ parents additionally deposit a Sh1 million bond with a surety of a similar amount under oath. She also ordered that the four men deposit their passports with the court and attend mentions every fortnight until the case if heard and determined. BOND REVIEW Upon release on bail, the four must swear an affidavit detailing their place of residence and stay within the court’s jurisdiction until the case if heard and determined. “If they default of the order requiring for them to appear in court every fortnight, the reviewed bond terms shall be cancelled,” Ms Murigi ruled. The four are charged with breaking into and stealing about Sh50 million from the bank between November 18 and 20 using a tunnel and possessing stolen property. Last week, lawyer Waithera Mwangi applied for a bond review on grounds that they come from humble backgrounds and had young families to fend for. “They are willing to abide by all other conditions set in the reviewed bond terms,” Ms Waithera told the court.  “They have no intention of fleeing court jurisdictions. They are also not a flight risk.” PROBATIONState Counsel Stella Oyagi however objected to the application on grounds that the four might interfere with witnesses, especially the owners of the more than 200 identity cards recovered from them. The magistrate asked for pre-bail reports on the four. On Wednesday, a probation report drafted by Ms Esther Munene recommended that the suspects be released on a Sh1 million bond with one surety of a similar amount owing to their humble backgrounds. But the prosecution objected to the recommendation, saying the court was mandated to act in its own discretion. “They are suspected to operate unknown businesses in Uganda and are, therefore, a flight risk,” Ms Oyagi said. The case will be mentioned on January 8. 
 