Majority Leader Aden Duale has demanded that 14 county governments in pastoral areas account for Sh200 billion they received from the exchequer. He said although the government disbursed Sh200 billion to the counties in the last five years, there is little to show on the ground. Mr Duale said despite the colossal amounts of public funds the counties received, pastoral communities are still grappling with challenges of acute water shortage, poor health facilities and livestock diseases. “Devolution has ended the narrative of marginalisation. Pastoralists cannot talk of margilisation whereas the government spent Sh200 billion for development in the last five years,” he said. Speaking at Nyali Sun Africa Beach Hotel in Mombasa during a Pastoralists Parliamentary Group meeting, Mr Duale asked the counties to explain to the communities how they spent the Sh200 billion. “We would not be hearing of water challenges in the pastoral counties had  the county chiefs spent the cash well,” he said. WATER PROBLEMS Mr Duale added that the counties could have reduced the water problems by 50 per cent if they had drilled boreholes in the last five years. He called on senators and MPs from the pastoral areas to stop complaining that their communities are marginalised whereas huge amounts of public funds cannot be accounted for. Mr Duale said apart from the Sh200 billion, the counties received about Sh1.5 billion through Constituency Development Fund. He was speaking to over 100 legislators from Kajiado, Samburu, Wajir, Marsabit, Tana River, Narok, West Pokot, Turkana, Elgeyo Marakwet, Baringo, Garissa, Isiolo, Lamu, Laikipia and Mandera counties. Meanwhile, donors have pledged $1.1 billion for development in eight counties under the  Frontier Council Development Corporation, the new FCDC chairman Ali Roba said. READ: Pastoralist leaders want Kenya Meat Commission Speaking after governors from the counties met World Bank and United Nations officials during the Council of Governors retreat in Kwale, Mr Roba said the funds will be used for building  Isiolo-Mandera road, fibre optic connectivity, water, agriculture and livestock production and health projects. GARISSA “The design of project has been done and implementation will start next year,” the Mandera governor, said. The FCDC counties include Isiolo, Marsabit, Lamu, Garissa, Wajir, Turkana and Tana River. Donor officials included World Bank’s  Abdu Muwonge, Annette Akinyi Omolo, UNDP’s Tim Colby, DFid’s Pete Vowles and UN resident coordinator Siddharti Charterjee. During the meeting Mr Roba was named FCDC chair with Governor Mohamud Mohamed Ali as his deputy. Former Isiolo deputy governor Mohamed Gullet was retained as head of secretariat for six months, while Dr Ible Farah is to continue as executive director for three years.  