The National Super Alliance (Nasa) has condemned the Sunday arrest of its strategist David Ndii and called for his unconditional release. Nasa co-principal Moses Wetang’ula, ODM’s treasurer Timothy Bosire and Kitutu Chache South MP Richard Onyonka termed the arrest “unconstitutional”. ARREST Mr Ndii is said to have been arrested at Leopard Beach Hotel in Kwale County and the matter was raised by Nasa leader Raila Odinga’s spokesman Mr Denis Onyango. On Sunday, police denied they had arrested the economist, but reports later indicated he was being interrogated at the DCI headquarters in Nairobi on Monday. “The arrest is aimed at intimidating our coalition, curtailing dissent and alternative views being channelled against the government,” Mr Wetang’ula, the Bungoma Senator, told the Nation on the phone. He said that the arrest would be countered by the same force and would eventually fail. “The arrest will be met by stiff resistance and I assure [you] the government will fail in this. We condemn the arrest with the strongest term possible,” he said. REFORMS His sentiments were echoed by Mr Bosire, who said that the government would not succeed in silencing the Opposition. The former Kitutu Masaba MP said Nasa would not be stopped from achieving what their plans. “Arresting Mr Ndii will not change anything … a number of people have been arrested but they end up achieving what they want,” he said. “All that we are out to achieve is to ensure that we have a fresh, free and fair election,” he added. RESIST Mr Onyonka, the Ford Kenya Deputy Party leader, condemned the arrest, saying that the government was taking the country back to the dark days. “We demand that the police release Mr Ndii unconditionally or they meet more resistance,” said the Kitutu Chache South MP. Last week, Mr Ndii was selected to be part of a seven-member committee to guide Nasa on the way forward for the People's Assembly. His role was to coordinate programmes of all county assemblies that have so far passed the motion for the formation of the People’s Assembly. Mr Ndii was to present a report to Nasa principals before December 12, the day Mr Odinga said he will be ‘sworn in’ as the people’s president. 
  
Detectives used a photograph to identify the economist after goofing at Leisure Lodge in Diani.
