The whereabouts of National Super Alliance (Nasa) head of policy David Ndii remains unknown as the police and the coalition are giving conflicting accounts. Whereas Nasa announced that Dr Ndii had been arrested at Leopard Beach Hotel in Kwale, the police in the county discounted the claims, saying they did not have any person bearing such a name in their custody. The news of Dr Ndii's arrest was broken by Mr Dennis Onyango who is Nasa Leader Raila Odinga’s spokesman.  Mr Onyango used his Twitter handle to announce the arrest which Msambweni police chief Joseph Chebusit denied. It is believed that Dr Ndii was arrested at around 5pm in an operation conducted by officers drawn from the Flying Squad and the Special Crime Prevention Unit through the coordination of the Kwale county office. CONFIRMED ARREST At about 9.49pm on Sunday, Mr Onyango tweeted again, saying the police had confirmed the arrest and that they were holding Dr Ndii at Diani Police Station. “They want to go back to his Leopard Beach Hotel in Kwale and pick (up) computer and laptop for the information they need,” Mr Onyango post read in part, even though he did not reveal the nature of information the police were seeking. Ms Winnie Odinga, who is the daughter of Nasa leader, was spotted at Diani Police Station at around 9.30pm but she complained the police did not want to talk to her. READ: People’s assembly: Nasa's way forward READ: Nasa to use ‘people’ to push for reforms However, she said at around 9.45pm, several unmarked police cars detoured at the station and she believes that is the time Dr Ndii was sneaked out. PEOPLE'S ASSEMBLY Dr Ndii's family members have reported that police picked up the economist at the Leopard Beach area of Diani in the South Coast.  Nasa flagbearer Raila Odinga's adviser Salim Lone said that Dr Ndii's family had been told that he had been taken to the Diani Beach Police Station only for the police to say that the economist was not at the station.  No reason was given for his alleged arrest.  However, the Nasa leadership insisted that the arrest is linked to be the economist’s role in the formation of the People’s Assembly, which the coalition says is the final pillar in the restoration of democracy and electoral reforms. The assemblies are part of Nasa's broad campaign for that Mr Odinga has termed "electoral justice" following August 8 and October 26 presidential elections, which he claims were rigged. CORRUPTION Mr Ndii has been a critic of the Jubilee administration for the last four years.  On Friday, Nasa picked him to lead the seven-member organising committee that is expected to deliberate and produce the road map towards restoring democracy, just governmence and legitimate leadership through the People’s Assembly. Significantly, the committee, whose other members are Mr Oduor Ong’wen, Ms Judy Sijeny, Hamida Kibwana, Dr Mutakha Kangu, Mr Koitamet Olekina and Mr Peter Mathuki, held its meeting on Sunday afternoon to deliberate on the way forward. The details of the meeting which took place at Nasa’s Okoa Kenya offices are scanty but it is believed it was chaired by Dr Ndii. 
  
Jubilee critic has been vocal on graft, misrule and extrajudicial killings.