Investigations into biased officiating in the final leg of the SportPesa National Boxing League held five weeks ago in Mombasa are almost complete, Boxing Association of Kenya (BAK) president John Kameta has said. Kameta Thursday said findings of the probe will be disclosed to stakeholders during KBF’s national executive committee meeting on Tuesday in Nairobi, adding that the federation is working with International Boxing Association (AIBA) in the investigations. “We have engaged AIBA since our experts were unable to log into some of the programmes in the computer scoring system. We can only give a conclusive report after getting the password, which AIBA has promised to avail besides helping out,” Kameta said Thursday. Kameta said KBF has made progress with the investigations, adding that a top official in the federation’s technical department is likely to be suspended.  Kameta said the ongoing investigations have led to postponement of ‘Champion of Champions Championship’ earlier planned for December 15-16 at Kenyatta International Convention Centre in Nairobi.   The event will now be staged from January 5 to 6 at the same venue where Team Kenya of 10 boxers will be picked for 2018 Commonwealth Games planned for Gold Coast, Australia.  “We have already nabbed the culprits behind the biased scoring but we want the statics from the competing scoring system to back our investigations,” said Kameta. Kameta promised sweeping changes and investigations into allegations of biased officiating during the fifth and final leg of the SportPesa National Boxing league in Mombasa five weeks ago. Most of the complaints registered in the tournament came at the semi-finals where some boxers from Kenya Defence Forces and Nairobi were unfairly denied victory. In the end, Kenya Police’s “Chagua Chafua” squad retained the league with 103 points, beating Kenya Defence Forces by one point after the three-day competition at Uwanja wa Mbuzi grounds in Mombasa. Prior to the fifth leg, KDF led with 82 points followed by Police on 79 points. Coaches from most teams which competed in the championship cried foul, saying KDF and Nairobi boxers were denied victory. 
 