Lobby calls for friendly farm forest policies Kenya National Farmers Federation (Kenaff) has called for the reinforcement of forest farming policies to enable farmers to reap maximum benefits from tree cultivation. Chief executive, Dr Mwenda M’Mailutha, said Kenaff will strive to ensure farmers benefit from the prospects of growing trees and food crops and help Kenya attain the 10 per cent forest cover target that has remained elusive. “Farm forests will bring farmers additional income as this is an area that remains untapped because of weak policies and laws, and lack of education on the prospective benefits,” said Dr Mailutha who was speaking in Kiambu to delegates from the forestry sector during a training on farm forestry. Kenya Forest Service estimates that there is a supply deficit of about 12 million cubic metres in the production of sustainable wood.  Dr Mailutha rooted for a strategy to include establishment of guidelines on commercial nurseries and trees production for quality seedlings propagation, and instituting trees as a bankable product for financing and insurance – Brian Okinda **** First Kitui goat auction set for December 16 Goat farmers in Kitui County will now have a forum to sell their animals through an auction. Dubbed the Kitui County Annual Goat Auction and Cultural Fair, the inaugural event will be held on December 16 at Nguni market in Mwingi Central Constituency. The event, organised by Senator Enoch Wambua, among other partners, seeks to directly link farmers with consumers for a win-win business transaction. “The key idea is to make the auction an annual fair and spread out to more farmers to inspire profitable goat farming,” said Wambua. Traditionally, the Kamba are goat keepers as the animals survive well in the region that is semi-arid. The event targets to sell 1,000 goats, with a set reserve price of Sh7,000 each. A team of veterinary officials is on the ground vaccinating goats to be auctioned from four wards namely Nguni, Ngomeni, Kyuso and Nuu.  – Brian Okinda 
  
Kenya has about 7.2pc of forest cover but country needs at least 10pc to be self-sustainable.