Leaders across the country are mourning Kitui West MP who died on Wednesday morning at The Nairobi Hospital. President Uhuru Kenyatta eulogised him as legislator who served his constituents with commitment and dedication. President Kenyatta said the late MP always championed national interests and would never allowed narrow selfish interests jeopardize the unity of Kenyans. LEADERSHIP “I have known the late Nyenze since the time he was a Cabinet Minister under President Moi’s administration, he was always keen on preserving our unity and nationhood. I urge all of us to emulate his leadership style,” said Mr Kenyatta. The late MP has served as a minority leader in the last parliament and was re-elected on a Wiper Democratic Party ticket in August 8 General Election. The President said it was because of his commitment to servant leadership that the Kitui West residents re-elected him to serve them for another term of five years in parliament. He prayed to God to give comfort and fortitude to the family and all residents of Kitui West Deputy President William Ruto described Mr Nyenze as an amiable person, who had a voice of reason and was open minded. Meanwhile, the opposition National Supper Alliance has described Mr Nyenze as a dedicated and outspoken leader who always stood by what he believed was good for his constituents and the nation. Opposition leader Raila Odinga in a statement said Mr Nyenze steered the coalition MPs in the 11th Parliament in a difficult and hostile environment when he was the minority leader. “We have learnt with profound sadness of the passing earlier today of Kitui West MP Francis Nyenze following a period of hospitalisation. CAREER "We know that his passing fills Kitui West constituents and Nasa family with powerful emotions, given the countless ways in which he served the nation and the constituency as MP, Minister, and Leader of Minority at different times in his career,” Mr Odinga said. “Our thoughts and prayers are with his family. We wish to convey heartfelt sympathies and sincere condolences to the people of Kitui West and the country at large at this tragic moment. Hon Nyenze served the people of Kitui West and the country with dedication cumulatively for decades,” he added. Mr Mudavadi, in a separate statement, paid glowing tribute to the MP describing him as a hero who withstood political pressures and onslaught from Jubilee as Leader of Minority in Parliament despite cancer ailment taking a toll on him. “Nyenze was a modest leader. He took matters under the greatest advisory and care. He would not show any stress even under the greatest stress. "The Nasa fraternity has lost a leader of substance,” said Mr Mudavadi. TRIBUTE Public Service Cabinet Secretary Sicily Kariuki also paid tribute to the late MP, describing him as a  sound leader who represented his constituents and the nation with astuteness, saying she was shocked by his death. She also paid tribute to the courageous nature of the late lawmaker for supporting President Uhuru Kenyatta in his re-election bid although they were in different political parties, in Wiper and Jubilee respectively. “I was with Nyenze in Kitui when he first made a bold move to support President Uhuru Kenyatta in the last General Election. May our Lord bless and comfort his family during this time of grief,” said Ms Kariuki.  Additional reporting by Collins Omulo   He took oath of office with an oxygen tank strapped on his body on August 31.