The International Monetary Fund (IMF) has appointed a Kenyan to head its internal audit unit. Nancy Asiko Onyango will be the new director of the monetary body's Office of Internal Audit and Inspection (OIA) effective February 2018, replacing Clare Brady after a near four-year tenure. Her appointment was announced Monday by IMF managing director Christine Lagarde, who expressed confidence in the Kenyan national's ability to steer the key unit. “Ms Onyango brings to the Fund more than 25 years of experience in internal audit, strategic risk management, corporate governance and IT risk management,” Ms Lagarde said in a statement today.   “In addition to her extensive assurance and corporate governance experience, Nancy is passionate about empowering women and girls, notably in harnessing their leadership potential. I have full confidence that the OIA will continue to thrive under Nancy’s leadership,” she added. The OIA is charged with conducting independent examinations of the fund’s internal control and governance processes. Track record Ms Onyango has worked in several sectors, including financial services, and with several governments, development agencies and non-governmental organisations. Most recently, she was the CEO of Nairobi-based Reliance Risk Advisory Solutions. Before that, she was a Partner at PricewaterhouseCoopers (Kenya) and also served as EY's Governance, Risk and Compliance Leader for Africa. Ms Onyango is a Certified Public Accountant (CPA) and holds a doctorate degree in Business Administration from the United States International University — Africa (USIU) in Nairobi in conjunction with the Columbia Business School, specialising in gender leadership and organisational change management. She also holds several international certifications from global institutions such as the Information Systems Audit and Control Association and the Institute of Internal Auditors. She currently sits on the boards of KCB Bank Group #ticker:KCB and Cytonn Investments. READ: First Kenyan appointed to UN tax committee - VIDEO ALSO READ: Oduor-Otieno, Musyoka named Kenya Airways directors  