Rwanda bowed out of the 39th edition of Cecafa Senior Challenge Cup with a 2-1 win over Tanzania’s Kilimanjaro Stars in a Group A clash played at Kenyatta Stadium in Machakos County on Saturday. Nineteen- year-old APR striker Nshuti Innocent fired Amavubi Stars ahead in the 18th minute, but Oman-based Daniel Lyanga equalised a minute before the half-hour mark, his first goal in two starts.  Birahimire Abeddy came off the bench to grab the winner in the 65th minute. The Antoine Hey-led side have collected three points in four games finishing bottom of the five team group. Tanzania, who are also out, stay fourth on two points with a game to go against hosts Kenya. Hey made six changes to the team that played to a 0-0 draw with Libya on Friday. Goalkeeper Nzarora Eric, Mbogo Ali, Fitina Omborenga, Hakizimana Muhadjiri, Nshimiyimana Amran and Nshuti Innocent started in place of Eric Ndayishimiye, Usengimana Faustin, Iradukunda Eric, Yannick Mukunzi, Manishimwe Djabel and Biramahire Abeddy as the German kept his word on squad rotation.   Tanzania also made six changes. Ninje benched Michael Kamagi, injured Kelvin Yondan, Sony Sugar’s Abdallah Hamisi, Muzamiru Yassin, Elias Maguli amnd Shiza Ramadhan from the team that lost 2-1 to rivals Zanzibar in the previous clash. He hands starts to Mohammed Hussein, Jonas Mkude, Ibrahim Ajib, Raphael Daud, Tusker’s Abdul Hassan and Yahya Omary.  Rwanda had a bright start with Hakizimana Muhadjiri sending his fifth minute header off the target. Fitina Omborenga turned his marker Mohamed Hussein inside out in the 18th minute to tee up Nshuti, who thrashed a scorching effort past Aishi Manula in the 18th minute. Mohamed redeemed his poor marking by delivering a cross that resulted into the equaliser off Lyanga’s free header from close range. Hey withdrew Nshuti for second goal scorer Biramahire in the 54th minute and in the 63rd minute, Lyanga failed to beat Nzarora Marcel in Rwanda goal in a one against one. Substitute Elias Maguli would have levelled matters but missed a glorius chance in the 70th minute thanks to Nzarora’s perfect goalkeeping.  
 