The first time Lucy came to see me at the sexology clinic, she was 30 years old and had just gotten married.  At that time her problem was painful sex. After several meetings with her and her husband, it turned out that they lacked sexual skills and rushed into penetrative sex without adequate lubrication, which gave her bruises. After a number of coaching sessions, the couple became proficient.  But that was water under the bridge. Nearly 15 years later, Lucy was back with another unique problem: She had just been diagnosed with early cervical cancer.  At 44, Lucy’s marriage had remained blissful since our last meeting, and she had given birth to three children. She was lucky that the cancer had not spread.  “I am sorry that you have been diagnosed with the cancer but I am happy that the diagnosis was made early,” I said, to have her relax.  WHAT HAPPENS TO MY SEX LIFE? This is because many people think that at cancer diagnosis means inevitable death. Not every cancer is fatal, and early diagnosis and treatment totally change the course of the disease. There are many people who are cancer free after successful treatment. “I am not worried about the cancer, actually,” Lucy said. “I am just worried that I may never have sex again.” Lucy had just found out that she would have to undergo a hysterectomy – an operation in which the uterus is removed. “My gynaecologist was not very clear on what happens to my sex life after this. Do you know any women who have undergone hysterectomy? Do they still have and enjoy sex?” Lucy asked. A hysterectomy is actually the most common major gynaecological operation women undergo. Many married women have had to get one. At some point it was thought that the uterus had a big role in sex and orgasm.  Before medical advances proved otherwise, gynaecologists would perform sub-total hysterectomies – where some of the cervix was left in place – to enhance sexual pleasure. These beliefs have however been disproved. Women who have undergone hysterectomy are actually found to have a higher libido than those who haven’t. Arousal and lubrication are not affected by a hysterectomy.  The glands that produce lubrication are not found in the uterus, and so women can still enjoy foreplay and get the desired lubrication.  VAGINAL ORGASM There has also been the fear that women who have undergone a hysterectomy may have a shortened vagina, which could affect sex. This has also been disproved. There is no difference in pleasure for both man and woman after a woman has undergone hysterectomy. “But doctor, you know all this does not add value if, at the end of the day, you do not get orgasm, especially a vaginal orgasm,” Lucy interjected. She had been told by her friends a hysterectomy would put paid to that.  This is far from the truth. A hysterectomy does not interfere with any part of the vagina, and all orgasms are possible. Hysterectomies can be performed by cutting the tummy to reach the uterus then removing it the same way a baby is removed during Caesarean section.  Alternatively, the uterus can be reached through the vagina, released from internal organs and pulled out without cutting the tummy. Irrespective of the method used, sexual function remains intact. “I have now made up my mind. I will go for the hysterectomy and join the league of women enjoying the pleasure of sex without the worry of cervical cancer and monthly periods,” Lucy said as she waved goodbye to go and face the surgeon’s knife. Six months later I got a call from Lucy. “Our sex life is back to its peak! Looks like nothing can stop our love, not even a hysterectomy,” she said and burst out laughing.   Send your feedback to satmag@ke.nationmedia.com 
  
Also, gonorrhea may block the urethra rendering urine passage or even semen difficult