World Championships 10,000 metres bronze medallist Agnes Tirop and Lagos Marathon champion Abraham Kiptum Saturday won the third Ziwa Farmers 10-kilometre road race titles in Uasin Gishu County. And in the neighbouring Elgeyo-Marakwet County, Iten-based Mathew Kimeli and Gloria Kite won the senior races at the Iten Athletics Kenya Cross Country Championships. Kimeli, who trains at the traditional holiday camp at St Patrick’s High School, Iten, coached by Bro Colm O’Connell, ran in a tactful race before leading in the last two kilometres to win in 28 minutes and 57.2 seconds. In the women’s category, Kite crossed the line in 33:11.2 to win ahead of Agnes Chebet (33:19.6) while Norah Jeruto (34:06.7) was third. Kite said that she will be preparing for the Commonwealth Games next year where she is eyeing a slot in the 1,500 and 5,000 metres races. On the road, the Ziwa Farmers race attracted big names with the winners walking home with a Sh100,000 top prize. Tirop said she had prepared well for the race and was not cowed by the presence of world beaters in marathon running. “I had done my preparation well for the race and I knew it will be tough given that there were good marathoners but that didn’t deter me,” said Tirop who won in 31:07:01. “I did my calculation well and I wanted to be in the leading pack. I knew the marathoners were not good in finishing and I had to run with them and kick in the final few metres,” said the Iten-based athlete. She is eyeing a slot in the Kenya Commonwealth Games team next year in Australia where she will be seeking a gold medal in the 10,000m. “It’s unfortunate the Ethiopians will not be participating in the Commonwealth Games next year where I will be seeking to win the 10,000m title. I wanted to meet with them (Ethiopians) after they beating me in the World Championships in London last August,” she added. Kiptum beat Bernard Kimeli at the tape with the two both timed at 27:44 while Josphat Kipchirchir was third after running a 27:48.0 time. “My preparation was good and I have been training well after finishing my season in the marathon. Winning the race has given me more confidence in the events ahead of me,” said Kiptum. 
  
Tirop said she had prepared well for the race.