At the 2015 Sundance Film Festival, one of the most talked about films was an 87-minute movie known as Tangerine. It is about two transgender women in Los Angeles embarking on a mission to unreel a scandalous rumour. While the film does not have any big names from Hollywood, it is notable in many fronts such as the fact that it was made entirely using a Smartphone, iPhone 5s. Other award winning films shot entirely on Smartphones include 2014's Romance in NYC, I Play with the Phrase Each Other and the gripping short film Dragon Borne that strongly brings out the simplicity, efficacy, possibility and affordability of shooting videos and film with a mere Smartphone. Whether you want to create quality videos or short films for friends or family the following video editing apps can help you accomplish the quality you want. You don't have to share bad videos any longer when you can add some stunning features, voiceover, slow motion, soundtrack, transitions and much more fast and without spending much other than a few minutes of your time.   MAGISTO An app that helps you come up with outstanding videos in no time, it is superb for social media enthusiasts. Those who love sharing videos and photos can transform them into wonderful magnetic videos through the app's reliable filmmaker. Great for anyone without editing skills but thinking about creating a short movie within minutes. Magisto blends video effects, video clips, video filters, music and photos to help anyone anywhere tell and share their video story, video collage or slideshow. Whether intending to boost your social media influence with videos or sharing fun, training, trendy or music videos with fans online the app has the right features for the job. POWERDIRECTOR If you have phone footage you would like to edit, the app provides great features to help you make full HD videos. Video effects are stunning and the voice over and smooth transitions will come in handy. You can actually trim, split or rotate your video to create a full movie in HD, particularly if you have custom audio soundtrack or voiceover. Whether you recorded your video in slow motion or not you can use the app's slow motion editor to alter the speed of the video. App features include video editing tools, video effects manipulation, video and picture collage maker, voiceover and music maker, photo video editing tools, slow motion effects and ability to save your video on your Smartphone or share it online. You can actually export the video in Full HD, 4K or a mere 720p.  iMOVIE Specifically for iOS and Mac users, iMovie was launched in 1999 as a tool for Mac OS 8 in the iMac DV, the first Mac FireWire model. The app allows you to raid your video collection and create stunning movies you can actually edit and alter to the best resolution, including 4K. You can actually create quality trailers through provided graphics, original scores and graphics. Background import feature allow you to share the video and watch it instantly. The feature-rich iOS app has all you need to fine-tune each video clip, enhance the sound and the look, control the colour of your video, even the picture by stabilizing shaky video, utilize automatic zoom and choose from lots of audio and video effects. ADOBE PREMIERE CLIP  Free video editing app for fast creation of quality shareable videos. With lots of features, the Adobe app allows users to create a video automatically, edit the video, choose a quality soundtrack from the stock or add a personal one, make the most of colour and lighting, transform static images with a visual interest and share the video online. Trim the video parts you dislike and polish it visually through transitions, slow motion effects and lighting adjustments. VIDEO EDITOR WeVideo Inc's video editing app is an Android app superb for creating, editing and publishing videos easily. It is perfect for those creating video for social media such as Instagram, YouTube, Twitter or Facebook with easy to use features to add emojis, filters, themes, voiceover narration, effects, transitions, music among others. You can also add captions and titles, create HD quality videos while editing videos and photos from the app capture or phone gallery. QUIK A highly rated app, you only need to select the video clips or photos you want and the app will do the rest. Superb effects, transitions and syncing video with music is done in a matter of seconds even as you customize the video story with music or text to share with family or friends. With Quik you can add your video clips and photos, choose the video style you want, customize the video, choose the right soundtrack, share and save the video. App actually turns on video audio once detected while allowing you to undo some changes during the editing process.  
  
Multi-tasking is a lifestyle, and lots of people don’t put down the phone, even when something good is on TV.