Big guns Kenya Harlequin, Homeboyz, Impala Saracens and Nakuru have made crucial changes to their squads ahead of their second round of Kenya Cup matches Saturday in Nairobi, Kisii and Mombasa. Quins have effected three changes to the side that lost to Homeboyz 41-39 on Tuesday, as they host the 2013 and 2014 Kenya Cup champions Nakuru at the RFUEA grounds.  Deputy coach Victor Sudi indicated that they have brought in fly-half Brian Beckham, eighth man Donald Mussaja and lock Malcom Onsando in place of Eric Shikuku, David Ahugo and Lewis Olako. Mussaja, Beckham and Onsando came off the bench against Homeboyz.  Despite cracking a 45-15 victory against newcomers Kisii at Nakuru Athletic Club last Saturday, Nakuru are leaving nothing to chance and have also made four changes ahead of their Quins battle.  Flanker Edwn Makori and tight-head skipper Isaiah Nyariki replace Justus Dunde and John Mbugua respectively with George Kimani moving to the wing in place of Hannington Wabwire.  Nakuru head coach Mitch Ocholla disclosed that Kelvin Kioki will start at outside centre with Geoffrey Ominde replacing Donald Oluoch at scrum-half.  “We are seeking to improve on our defence that looked porous against Homeboyz besides holding our strength in the pack,” said Sudi.  “Nakuru are a championship team and we must remain on top of the game.” Ocholla reckoned that Quins is an experienced side that will present a different style compared to Kisii.  "They have strong forwards but we intend to match them and dominate at the breakdowns,” said Ocholla.  “Our work is cut out hence my defence must be up there to stand a chance of winning.”  Impala Saracens have made substantial eight changes ahead of their battle against Mwamba, who have only one, replacing flanker Humphrey Kayange with David Oluoch. Impala crushed Mombasa 48-0 while Mwamba lost to Kabras Sugar 29-22 in their first round matches.  Key on Impala’s side is the return of Kenya 15s prop Dennis Karani, who replaces Joshua Momanyi, who moves to the bench. Injured eighthman Duncan Ekasi goes out for Steve Shammah.  Billy Omondi and Samuel Motari comes in for George Okowa and Anthony Nyandigisi at centre respectively. Nyandigisi starts at fly-half with Mark Kwemoi going to full-back. Homeboyz hopes to add another bonus point victory against Nondescripts at the Jamhuri Park showground.  The Deejays have reinforced their side with Polycarp Odhiambo at second-row and Steve Otieno at Number eight, with Jacob Owaa and Keith Wasike moving to the bench. Defending champions KCB and last year’s losing finalists Kabras Sugar hope to follow up their previous wins with a flawless run.  KCB edged out Strathmore Leos 27-0. KCB are away to Kisii at Gusii Stadium while Kabras host Leos. Saturday's Fixtures: Quins v Nakuru (RFUEA), Mwamba v Impala Saracens (Impala ), Kisii v KCB  (Gusii), Kabras v Strathmore (Kakamega), Homeboyz v Nondies (Jamhuri Park);  Sunday - Mombasa v Blak Blad (Mombasa) 
 