The questions being raised over the poor performance of this year’s Form Four candidates require reflection and retrospection. It is difficult to say outright what is the correct position but the concerns about the inordinately large number of failures are valid. It is not usual to have some 60 per cent of the candidates scoring D and below, condemning them to hopelessness. Conversely, the declining numbers of candidates obtaining A grades and, more so, those qualifying for university education, should be a real point of conversation. REFORMSTrue, the country has turned the corner in regards to examinations administration and management. Until two years ago, examinations were goods for trade and the best grades went to the highest bidders. Exams almost lost credibility. Schools, parents and even communities organised themselves to buy or short-circuit the process and the results were unbelievable. Candidates scored high grades in a manner that defied the normal curve as observed in tests and measurements. However, this year’s results are perturbing, raising questions about their credibility. EXAM MARKINGA story published elsewhere in this edition reveals worrying circumstances under which the marking was done. For the more than 611,000 candidates, their scripts were marked in just 10 days. The markers worked under difficult conditions — there was too much pressure to complete the assignment, some marking schemes had errors, checkers did not have required experience and procedures such as moderation were circumvented. Matters were not made any better by the poor living and working environment for the markers. REVIEWPROCEDUREThere are times when some actions are taken to achieve an altruistic objective. In this case, the speedy marking and processing of exam results is intended to eliminate cheating that was prevalent in the exams. However, this has turned out to be counter-intuitive. So, despite the good intentions, it is essential that the whole process of marking and grading be reviewed to guarantee credibility of results. We commend Education Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i and the team at the Kenya National Examinations Council for curbing cheating. However, they must explain to Kenyans the reason for the worrying levels of failures. Something is not just adding up.  