Q : I am an onion farmer in Taveta. Kindly inform me the best fertiliser to use for growing the crop in the region.Philip For onions, you have to know the market requirements and manipulate the production practice to produce the desired quality.  Planting density and fertilisation are critical in determining the size, weight and general quality of onion bulbs produced.  Onions have a relatively low nutrient uptake efficiency due to their shallow root system, characterised by thick roots with very few and short hairs.  Therefore, it is critical to implement a fertiliser programme adapted to those conditions to help achieve optimum yields. Time the applications of nutrients as close as possible to the rooting zone in frequently and readily available forms. Major nutrient removal Application of fertilisers that supply a balanced nutrient supply for onions, giving both primary, secondary and micro-nutrients is critical for high yields and quality of produce. Nutrient removal figures show that nitrogen and potassium are the minerals needed in greatest quantities in onion crops. They are fundamental for achieving high marketable yields.  However it is important not to over-apply nitrogen, particularly in bulb onions, as this can delay maturity, soften bulbs and lead to storage rots.  In similar fashion to nitrogen, most phosphorus is required early in the plant’s development to ensure good root growth and to boost establishment.  Potassium is particularly important where high N rates have been applied, to help maintain yield by increasing dry matter and sugar accumulation in the bulb (better bulb size and weight) Fertilisation regime Fertiliser application for onion should therefore start by first week after transplanting, with an NPK regime for establishment of the crop.  About 40 per cent of the N, and K as well as calcium requirements should then be applied by the third to fourth week during the first top-dress.  The second top-dressing should then be done at the bulbing stage, supplying the rest of the nutrient needs. Calcium and boron are critical in ensuring a longer shelf-life and preventing rots in the bulbs.  Onions prefer a nitrate form of nitrogen as opposed to ammonium forms, and therefore more of nitrate N source fertilisers such as in YaraMila Winner and Nitrabor will give better results – better bulb size and weight. For crop specific fertiliser recommendations, please consult the following agronomists in your area: Central Region: Stephen Mburu, 0728396204.Upper Rift Valley: Daniel Mui, 0702466343.Eastern: Dennis Nyandaya, 0702466372.Lower Rift Valley: Chris Masira, 0798498320.Western: Eric Okwado, 0715484224. Vitalis Wafula, East Africa Regional Agronomist, Yara. 
  
Tomato crops require phosphatic fertilisers with at least 30 per cent of the total nitrogen requirement at the transplanting stage.