Twenty matches were played in the 2017 Cecafa Senior Challenge Cup hosted in Kakamega, Machakos and Kisumu Counties in the past two weeks. As usual, teams had different intents in this year’s edition with Rwanda and Libya preferring to use the tourney to prepare for the 2018 Africa Nations Championship (Chan) set for Morocco next month. Uganda, who are also headed to Morocco, saw their chase for a 15th title stopped by minnows Zanzibar in the semi-final, but managed a third place finish after edging out Burundi. Players used the platform to showcase their talents with hopes of attracting a number of local and international scouts that graced the matches.  Nation Sport  picks its best 11 of the tourney. 1. Patrick Matasi (Kenya) His quick reflex, composure and confidence in goal amidst outstanding communication skills with his backline saw him keep five clean sheets in six games.  Matasi saved three penalties to help Stars beat the impressive islanders 3-2. Being awarded the best goalkeeper and player of the tournament was a proof of his work rate that aided Harambee Stars to a seventh cup. 2. Fitina Omborenga (Rwanda) Despite playing four games out of a possible seven, the APR right back stood out with his attacking and defensive skills.  He recorded two assists in the tournament, both coming in a 2-1 win over Tanzania in Group A. Omborenga is good off and on the ball, and has stamina to dribble his markers with pinpoint crosses.  3. Haji Mwinyi (Zanzibar) Undoubtedly the best left back with quality in crossing balls and set pieces.  The Young Africans' left back had three assists in six games, he missed their 2-1 win over Uganda in the semi-finals on suspension but showed his mettle in the final providing the assist to the equaliser.  4. Jockins Atudo (Kenya) Atudo is a hard tackler, good in the air and positioning. His remarkable performance was in a 2-0 win over Rwanda, when he was fouled resulting in Masoud Juma’s penalty goal.  He also did timely clearances, most importantly against Libya when he cleared the ball off the line in the latter stages of the match for a 0-0 draw.  The goal could have dented Stars’ semi-final chances. 5. Bernard Muwanga (Uganda) The SC Villa central defender featured in the record champions’ five games. Apart from captaining the side, he showed brilliance as a centre back and partners Atudo in our team. 6. Abdul-Aziz Makame (Zanzibar) Man of the match in their semi-final 2-1 win over holders Uganda in which he scored the opener, the Taifa Jang’ombe holding midfielder took the tourney by storm with his exemplary skills in his strong defensive skills.  He has the ability to pressure opponents and deny entry passes, he is also a strong tackler. The 21-year-old has a bright future with a lot of local scouts chasing his services. 7. Alharaish Zakaria (Libya) Zakaria capitalised on his speed to sprint down the sideline into open space crossing balls that troubled his opponent’s defence.  He has ability to beat his markers on one-on-one situations and can play well defensively when he loses the ball. He has an eye for goal and proved it scoring Libya’s single goal in the competition against Zanzibar in the last group stage match. 8. Patillah Omoto (Kenya) The Kariobangi Sharks midfielder was ever present in Stars line-up throughout the tournament. He is a typical number eight with convincing defensive attributes. He partnered either Ernest Wendo or Duncan Otieno but still did well. 9. Derrick Nsibambi (Uganda) The tournament top scorer with four goals. The Kampala City Council Authority (KCCA) striker has predatory skills, the kind any coach would look for in a striker.  He poked most of his goals from close range with a sea of defenders. 10. Shassir Nahimana (Burundi) A creative midfielder with qualities of a natural number ten. Nahimana, who scored a goal in the tourney and recorded three assists, makes in our best team with his dribbling skills and pace, a threat upfront.  11. Abubakher Sanni (Ethiopia) The left-footed speedy winger scored two goals in three games before his team was eliminated at the preliminaries. Sanni, who turns out for Ethiopian champions St Georges, is a technical player, a menace on the flanks thanks to his quick feet. Reserves: Abdulrahman Mohamed (GK, Zanzibar), Yaleh Tilahun (Ethiopia), Himid Mao (Tanzania Mainland), Milton Kalisa (Uganda), Hakizimana Muhadjiri (Rwanda), Issa Juma, Feisal Abdalla and Mudathir Yahya (Zanzibar), Wol Atak (South Sudan), Dennis Sikhai, Masud Juma, Vincent Oburu (Kenya), Taktak Muftah (Libya),  Head coach: Hemed ‘Morocco’ Suleiman (Zanzibar), Assistant: Paul Put (Kenya) 
  
Ovella Ochieng struck the opener with a beautiful free-kick in the fifth minute.