I still can’t believe I am looking at Steve’s profile on Tinder; if Louise knew that ‘her man’ was still out there looking for women, I think she would have a complete mental breakdown, and so telling her that her man still isn’t worth her time is not worth that price.  I’ll have to figure out a different way – and it looks like talking to him is going to be the only way to get this sorted. Just as I am pondering my options, my phone rings; it’s Jo. “Hey,” I say when I pick up. “Great thing you called. I need someone’s advice and you’ve just offered yourself up, haha!” “What’s going on? Is it about Joseph?”“Who?” I say sarcastically. Jo laughs long and loud.“Yea, I was going to tell you, leave that one alone. He’s a waste of time.”“I know,” I sigh. “I see you’ve suddenly acquired a sense of discernment!” Jo pokes fun at my famously bad romantic choices. “Ha ha ha,” I say dryly. “Anyway, listen, so I did like Mariam suggested and got on Tinder. Guess who I found there, with pictures of his new baby and his girlfriend even.”“Noooo,” Jo gasps. “Not Steve.” “Who else?” I shrug, even though she can’t see me. “Like, at this point I don’t even know how to intervene. This is the sort of information that could really topple Louise and with a newborn to take care of, I don’t think I can tell her and be responsible for that happening. Like, Steve is such a POS.” “Yea,” Jo says. “Louise is doing so well, too. But I am confused about all this. Steve is always by her side taking care of her when he’s not at work. When does he find the time to cheat on her?” He’s doing it high-tech, sis,” I say. And as I say this, a plan starts to formulate in my head. “We should figure out what his profile is for and if he’s still cheating. What if we set up a catfish?” “You mean like a fake account to entrap him?” Jo asks. “Ya, ya,” I say. “How do you make sure that you and him are a match?” “Oh, I know the kind of girls he likes. I just need to find some pictures of one such girl and put myself in a position to be liked by him. I think I know how,” I say. “Come over this evening, let’s discuss this over a bottle of wine or something,” she says, and we hang up after firming up arrangements.  Then I look at the time on my cell phone display; it’s nearly lunchtime, and Chris and I have made arrangements to meet at a restaurant just down the street. As I fix my hair and my make-up in the bathroom, I contemplate the butterflies I am feeling in my tummy. Oh, if only this was not such a complicated, unsure relationship. I am looking forward to seeing Chris after a long time – but also scared of how the conversation might go. I don’t like awkward, difficult discussions.  In spite of all this, I walk into the restaurant with as much confidence as I can muster in each footstep, and my eyes scan the restaurant for Chris, who I see seated in a booth in the far corner. Our eyes catch each other at the exact same moment as he looks up from the iPad he’s been browsing, and I see his appreciative, warm smile.  I feel the corners of my mouth turn up too; it’s good that we’re both happy to see each other – and I am particularly relieved that this particular date is present for our lunch right on time instead of being asleep at home. “Hey there,” Chris says as I approach, holding his arms out for a hug. “You’re a sight for sore eyes.” Then he puts his arms around me in such a warm, tight, comforting embrace that I melt. It feels like I have finally found a place to put all my problems down and just relax and breathe. “Are you okay?”  He pulls back and puts his hands on my shoulders, looking deep into my eyes as if he is searching for whatever is causing me pain in order to remove it. “No, I’m not,” I shake my head. “Sit down,” he instructs. “Tell me everything you’re going through.” 
  
Liz has a tense conversation with Joseph and a soothing one with Chris, all with interesting conclusions.