As is the case with life, 2017 was full of highs, lows, turning points and promises galore for the Harambee Stars. Their impressive triumph over Zanzibar in the final of the Cecafa Senior Challenge Cup that saw them regain the regional title before a packed Kenyatta Stadium in Machakos on December 17 was without doubt, the highlight of Kenya’s performances this year.   In contrast, there were several lowlights associated with the Harambee Stars, most notably, that morale-sapping 2-1 defeat away to Sierra Leone in Free Town on June 10, in the opening match of the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations qualifiers.  Already, this outcome makes it harder for Stars to qualify for the forthcoming Nations Cup set for Cameroon in mid 2019. At the same time, the consecutive losses to Iraq and Thailand in Asia in international friendlies, within a span of three days in October also stand out as some of the results the national teams players, coaches and administrators would rather wish away.   Meanwhile, Paul Put’s appointment as Stars coach on November 17, undoubtedly was a turning point, considering among other things, the hype, and results posted by the team since he took charge. The Belgian trainer’s arrival came amid consistent pressure from the team’s supporters and stakeholders who were calling for an overhaul of the technical bench following a spate of below par performances. “I love Okumbi. But after we lost to Sierra Leone I remember calling the FKF leaders and said ‘look, we need to change something here’,” SportPesa CEO Ronald Karauri told Nation Sport in an interview in October. He added: “I’ll be honest and say that I have my doubts. I am not a football expert, but if we are talking about appearing at the World Cup in 2022, there are things we need to do.”   “Our next match is a difficult one, against Ghana. As a layman, I have my reservations about the technical bench. Obviously, (Football Kenya Federation president) Nick (Mwendwa) and his colleagues know more football than me, so I will continue to support them in whichever decision they make.” Put’s arrival led to the demotion of Stanley Okumbi, who now is the team’s assistant coach. Other assistant coaches are John Kamau and Haggai Azande.  The fate of Musa Otieno and Francis Ouna, who were both unveiled as the national team’s assistant coaches early last year, however remains unclear. Put hit the ground running with seamless ease and relative success that one cannot help wondering aloud what would have been had the former Burkina Faso and USM Algiers of Algeria coach arrived to take this job 12 months earlier. Under Put’s guidance, Stars have played in six matches, all of them in the Cecafa Senior Challenge Cup and are yet to taste defeat.   Two of these assignments, against Rwanda and Tanzania ended in wins. The rest, against Zanzibar (twice), Libya and Burundi ended in draws after 90 minutes. The other important thing under Put’s tutelage was the vast improvement of performances, which in turn, naturally, led to the increased excitement of fans. In less than a month, several players within the team’s set up, such as Patrik Matasi, Dennis Sikhayi, Duncan Otieno, Masoud Juma, Vincent Oburu and of course Ovella Ochieng’ had exhibited improvement and seemed to be playing with real confidence. Contrast this to the situation a few months ago when Stars struggled to get the grip on the game during that rainy evening in Free Town when lowly Sierra Leone ran them rugged on the rain-soaked pitch of the National stadium. Matters were not helped on the day by the early dismissal of South Africa-based defender Brian Onyango. Okumbi had to face enormous pressure from the team’s backers.   He also got a roasting on social media from the vocal Kenyans on Twitter, especially following his decision to start the relatively green Masoud Juma in attack.  Pundits argued that Ulinzi’s Stephen Waruru, who was on the bench, had a far better finishing ratio to Juma in the local league.  Kenya won four of the other fixtures the team participated in this year. All of these matches were friendlies. The team drew one-all with Uganda in Machakos, defeated the highly fancied DR Congo at the same venue three days later. Stars also drew at home with Malawi and away to Mozambique.  This also was a year of breakthrough for some of Harambee Stars players, with Micheal Olunga being nominated as one of the best footballers on the continent by the Confederation of African Football. Olunga’s nomination came months after he secured a lucrative move to Spanish top flight league side Girona. This successes are encouraging considering that, the 23-year old Olunga received his football education in Kenya, initially at Nairobi based-Liberty Academy, before enjoying spells at Thika United, Tusker and Gor Mahia in the SportPesa Premier League.   China-based Ayub Timbe, Stars captain Victor Wanyama alongside Jesse Were who was awarded the best performer gong at his Zambian club Zesco United. So was former Harambee Stars goalkeeper Arnold Origi, now a naturalized Norwegian after switching nationality. He helped Lillestrom win Norway’s domestic cup. But, with the heroics of Matasi at the Council of East and Central Africa Football Associations tournament on home soil where he seemed to have toppled the preferred Boniface Oluoch as Kenya’s number one, the country may not miss Origi at all. The future indeed looks bright for the Stars. Bring on Ghana, bring on Ethiopia. 
 