A civil society group and the Kisumu County Government have reached a deal to build a monument in the lakeside town in honour of recent post-election victims. The plaque will be erected at Jomo Kenyatta Sports Ground. KILLINGS Pamoja Trust Chief Executive Officer Steve Ouma said the decision was reached because of the national government’s failure to condemn the killings and torture committed by the police. “We have agreed with the County Government of Kisumu to have a memorial in respect to all those who were killed and maimed during the violence that happened in August and October. “It is sad that while it is well-known that the police were responsible for the incidents, the government has failed to come out to condemn them, therefore we must have this monument,” said Mr Ouma. PREPARATIONS The County Government through its Press Unit Director Aloyce Ager confirmed the deal, saying it was conducting feasibility study. Once complete, the construction will start immediately, he said. “The county public's work office is already carrying out the feasibility study to come up with the cost and once it is complete, the building will begin immediately. We want to honour all our brothers and sisters who were killed by police while fighting for their rights,” Mr Ager said. Mr Ouma said the monument will be similar to the one at Freedom Corner in Nairobi and another in Wajir, which commemorate freedom fighters and victims of the Wagalla massacre, respectively. COMPENSATION According to Pamoja Trust and the Kisumu County Government, the monument is also aimed at shaming the national government over the atrocities to its people and to compel them to apologise to the victims. It would also push the government to compensate the victims, they said. “The reasons why we need this monument apart of honouring the innocent citizens is to pass the message that what happened was a shame to any civil society. With the monument in place we expect the government to come out and apologise to Kisumu people,” said Mr Ouma. DEATH TOLL "There are many young people whose lives have been affected forever because of the atrocities. The State must put funds together to ensure they have an upkeep for the rest of their lives,” he added. Kisumu County was the most affected by election reform and post-election protests that rocked various parts of the country. According to Pamoja Trust statistics, about 61 people were killed in Kisumu alone while 275 were maimed and tortured. 
 