Like in most other growing economies, Kenya’s youth comprise the largest percentage of the population.  However, despite the tremendous economic growth achieved, young people are still a majority of the unemployed.  As the population grows and more join the job market, the consequences of youth unemployment can be detrimental.  Besides hampering economic growth, idle youth are highly likely to engage in crime, and can used as tools for aggression and political unrest.  EMPOWERMENT Future economic growth can only be secured by nurturing youth and preparing them to take on challenges with the skills necessary to move the country forward.  The government is committed to empowering youth through key interventions in education, preparation for the job market, employment, and access to finance.  The focus is on the job-creating sectors by prioritising manufacturing, low-cost housing, agriculture, and health care.  These growth-oriented sectors will offer initiatives, projects, and programmes, with youth set to be the greatest beneficiaries of the 6.5 million targeted jobs over the next five years.  EDUCATION The goals of the Jubilee Manifesto have been assimilated into the 3rd Medium Term Plan, and are also aligned with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals to empower young people with opportunities and skills. The plan is to ensure that youth have the right education and skills to take on future employment. Some of the significant interventions include improving the skills of the young people through Technical Vocational Education & Training; expansion, revitalisation and staffing of technical training institutes; increasing Higher Education Loans Board funds for the universities and TVET; and aligning the curriculum to industry needs.  The graduates will be equipped for the job market through internship and apprenticeship programmes.  JOB CREATION To facilitate this, the government has established a Youth Development Council to link young people to opportunities, and will extend tax incentives to organisations on admitting interns.  Once educated and technically prepared, they will be ready take up the opportunities in manufacturing, commercial agriculture, agro-processing, and housing. These sectors are critical for the development of industry, enhancing food security, and providing decent, affordable housing for all, while creating and retaining jobs.  Opportunities for youth in these sectors will be in agro-processing, fisheries, textiles and apparel, leather, building materials and services, commercial farm labour, and in the manufacturing supply chain, which includes exports.  NYS In addition to the priority sectors, other areas that will also offer an array of opportunities for skilled youth will include the standard gauge railway; nuclear power; the Blue Economy primed on expanding fish farming; and ICT jobs through the Ajiira programme.  Emphasis will also be placed on equipping the National Youth Service with the capacity to implement commercial projects.  The government further recognises the role of structured support to the creative sector, and will invest in some initiatives to improve infrastructure, nurture talent, and strengthen the institutions in sports, culture, and the arts.  Finally, youth who are keen on entrepreneurship should be able to benefit from improved access to finance and affordable credit.  This will address the challenges that many young people face in financing and growing their businesses, and ultimately, ensure that more youth eventually become job creators.  FUNDING To enhance coordination, effectiveness, and efficient service delivery, the Women’s Enterprise Fund, Uwezo, and the Youth Enterprise Development Fund will be consolidated into Biashara Bank, which will serve youth better, and provide better business support. Achieving these objectives for youth, and the country at large, is anchored on growing the economy and ensuring that the country remains a preferred investment hub in order to increase foreign direct investments.  The young people are, therefore, called upon to actively play a more significant role in shaping the nation they want for the future by taking advantage of all the opportunities available to them, and using them to improve their lives, propel themselves to success, and fully contribute to nation building. Mr Nyakera is the principal secretary for Planning and Statistics 
 