Nigerian superstar Wizkid has spoken out against international award organisers who hand out awards to African musicians backstage.  Wizkid, a repeat nominee and winner of international awards has made his position clear on awarding stars backstage as opposed to on stage, something that many African stars have termed as disrespectful. Wizkid who was recently in Uganda has won a number of awards including BET, MTV Europe Awards and the MOBOs. “This is why I don’t go for those shows,” Wizkid said in response to a reporter during an interview with NBS in Uganda, “...that is what I do, I don’t take nonsense from anyone trying to look down on Africa.” Musicians like Sauti Sol and Fuse ODG have in the past not shied away from calling out such international awards. “If you are not going to show us the same love you show your international artiste, if you are not going to show us that same love on the main stage, then don’t show us any love at all, we don’t want it. We have ours, and we are content with our own people,” he stressed.  *** Singer Serro performs at first Picazzo Music sessions Fast rising singer Serro was last week on Thursday the first musician to perform at the newly introduced Picazzo Music Sessions at Spanish eatery Picazzo Restaurant. The music sessions are in collaboration with Jamhuri Festival. Serro rose to fame with the song Rongai and is still pursuing a degree at Kenyatta University. “I’m so excited to be holding this special performance at Picazzo. It will be a high energy and a beautiful show! I cannot wait! Everyone come out, let’s have a good time as my band and I deliver an electric performance,” she had said prior to performance. Serro is part of Jamhuri Festival’s collective of artistes that have taken over Nairobi’s live music scene by storm. With weekly performances from some of the top and upcoming artistes in Kenya, Jamhuri Festival showcases a variety of Kenyan acts while flaunting their diversity.  ***  Is music video director Nelson Tiger bitter? If you follow Kenyan music video director Nelson Tiger then you know he is not a stranger to frequent rants on social media. In his latest dramatic posts, he claims that he is born again and urges any artiste who owes him money to pay him back. “I am now not only a born again gospel director but a pastor, I pray and things move and happen in the name of God Jesus Christ Lord, I’m tired of people talking lies behind my back and evil of me. Nobody! and I repeat nobody knows how far I have come, only God knows this, if I give you my shoes you can’t walk even a mile my friend, things I’ve dealt with only God delivered me,” Tiger wrote. Some of his followers have questioned whether his account has been hacked while others accuse him of being bitter, angry and seeking fame. “Now if you are an artist and you owe me send that money because I’m praying to God and He the maker Jehovah, the God of Israel has heard my cry, don’t wait for me to submit you to him. If you think what is happening in the entire world is a joke just wait, God is coming back for his people, these are the last days,” he adds.  ***  Paul Okoye’s wife opens up about miscarriages Anita Okoye, wife to ex-P Square member Paul Okoye, has revealed that she had four miscarriages before she was blessed with twins in July.  Mrs Okoye revealed the information on her Instagram page where she posted a short video captioning it with the news. “Who would have thought after four miscarriages, I’d be dancing and singing and dedicating twins to God almighty?  This God is too good o! God has really turned my mourning into dancing again and has lifted my sorrows. I am so grateful to God, my family and friends for standing by me through it all, for remembering me in your prayers, for every ounce of support...God bless every single one of you. The couple welcomed their twins in July, a boy and a girl. She continued: “May the good Lord grant all your hearts’ desires and as you have always been available to pray, laugh, cry, dance and rejoice with me. May God’s blessings never leave you. I wish I could tag every single one of you. More pictures coming soon from Nathan and Nadia’s dedication,” she wrote.  ***  Ed Sheeran breaks royal protocol Singer Ed Sheeran has been honoured with a Member of the Order of the British Empire, but while accepting the MBE, Sheeran broke royal protocol by touching Prince Charles’ arm.  According to the Mirror, royal etiquette means that touching should not go beyond a formal handshake, Sheeran while receiving the honour touched the future king’s arm. However, the singer made sure to look presentable by covering his numerous tattoos. The ‘Shape of you’ Singer talked to the press after the ceremony revealing that Prince Charles was surprised that he was flying immediately to New York for a gig.  ***  A Pass is over haters and this is why Ugandan musician A Pass often gives his followers bits of advice with a touch of humour on how to make it in life while at the same time giving haters something to talk about. In his recent Instagram posts ,A Pass showed off his car to his fans and gave them a tip on how to acquire one as well. “Hallo, this is A Pass the king, you know that already,” he began in the clip. “Anyway, there is not much I want to show you, I just want to take you for a car tour, the outside not the interior. Come, follow me and by the way I’m smart,” he said gesturing to his outfit.  “What you see here is the most beautiful car, it’s the best in town, it’s mine, it’s not yours and I’m here to encourage you to work hard, you have to work hard then you can have a car like me. You can be like me, you only have to work, and it’s nothing to get jealous about. I know the haters are going to say…” he said launching into Luganda “but I’m over you,” 
  
Balogun Ayodeji or Wizkid if you please, is one of the latest sensations on the continental entertainment scene.