I started this past week in Kisumu, helping to facilitate a very interesting seminar for medical doctors on their role in conflicts and humanitarian crises. The seminar was organised by the Kenya Medical Women’s Association and the Kenya National Commission on Human Rights, and brought together young doctors from Kisumu and surrounding counties. During our discussion, we collectively wondered how dysfunctional our country looks and feels like at this time, 54 years after independence. The frequent eruptions of irrational behaviour, including violence after what are supposed to be routine activities of nationhood such as voting for leaders, do not inspire much confidence in these young professionals, and many expressed extreme frustration and anger at our primitive state. CITIZENS' BEHAVIOURReflecting on these sentiments, one may want to equate, as I often do, a country with a human being at a particular stage of development.  To be able to successfully predict expected behaviour of a country’s population, I opine that one needs to separate the country’s chronological age from what I may term its behavioural age.  Instead of looking at a country’s age and attempting to predict its behaviour based on a human equivalent (as we often do!), it becomes necessary to instead study the collective behaviour of a country’s population and then attempt to estimate its age in human equivalents, after which predictions of future behaviour can be made based on that new human-equivalent age. In relation to our country, many observers would be left in absolutely no doubt at all that we collectively display frequent tantrums, irrational outbursts of violence, illogical thought processes and a good dose of magical thinking.  COGNITIVE STATUS Magical thinking involves making improbable associations between our behaviour and unrelated outcomes.  For instance, when the person says a word and soon afterwards hears a clap of thunder, he quickly associates the two and believes that saying that particular work will result in thunder, regardless of other prevailing circumstances. If we agree that Kenya collectively engages in the behaviour pattern described above, the next question is to determine at what age normal humans are expected to behave like that.  It turns out that a 54-year-old human would not logically be expected to display those behaviour traits unless he is mentally unwell.  It is, therefore, impossible to reconcile this collective behaviour with that of humans of the same age, and this might explain the frustration many thinking Kenyans feel whenever they find themselves in the middle of those eruptions.  TODDLERS Further examination reveals that this kind of behaviour is common and expected of human babies aged between two and three years.  These are the toddlers who are also referred to as “terrible twos”, and whose entire worldview centres on their own needs and wants.  They are self-entitled and get really angry when their wishes are thwarted, or even slightly delayed.  They will throw tantrums and engage in the most transparently irrational behaviour, and their simple thought repertoire is replete with magical thinking. Kenya, therefore, behaves like a typical human toddler, and we should only use the behaviour of human toddlers as our frame of reference in predicting the collective behaviour of Kenyans.  ARGUMENT Expecting a toddler to examine facts with the mind of a 54-year-old is extremely ambitious, and inevitably leads to disappointment and frustration. It appears everyone has been expecting too much from this irrational toddler, leading to the generation of impractical solutions to the problems facing this country. When a toddler engages you in an argument, do you use the highest level of logic to try and convince them to see things your way?  Does the concept of sharing and equity make sense to a toddler?  Does justice, with all its nuances and occasionally inconsistent application, make sense to a two-year-old?  Do the same correction methods work for toddlers as for 54-year-olds?  It is my considered opinion that anyone interested in finding solutions to some of the more intractable problems this country continues to face must reimagine Kenya as the equivalent of the human toddler, and then approach the problems with that in mind. Atwoli is Associate Professor and Dean, Moi University School of Medicine Lukoye@gmail.com  
 