Uasin Gishu ward representatives have passed a motion that will force supermarkets in the county to provide alternative free carrier bags following the ban on plastic bags. While moving the motion, nominated MCA Catherine Barmao said after the ban three months ago, supermarkets had forced customers to buy alternative carriers instead of providing the bags. "Supermarket attendants have made a habit of mixing all manner of goods into one bag unlike the past where food stuffs and detergents were separated. This is unhygienic and unacceptable," said Dr Barmao. BAN The ban on plastic carrier bags came into force on August 28 and there has been public outrage over the move by supermarkets not to pack their goods after sale. While seconding the motion, Ng'enyilel MCA David Sing'oei said the ban on plastic bags should not be used by supermarkets as an excuse to mistreat customers. “Plastic bags were costly even before this ban, yet our supermarkets could generously afford them and even branded them. Right now those supermarket attendants boldly throw in everything into one bag. This is unacceptable,” said Mr Sing’oei. When the floor was opened for debate, majority of the ward representatives supported the motion while questioning the reason behind supermarkets forcing customers to buy their own bags. "Some of the plastic bags that were given for free to customers were more expensive compared to the current bags which customers are now forced to carry or buy and this is why we need to stop this culture before it gets out of hand," said Tembelio MCA Pius Kigen. LIVES AT RISK Majority Leader Josphat Lowoi accused supermarkets of putting the lives of Kenyans at risk by stuffing different goods in one carrier bag. "Supermarkets should not take advantage of ban on plastic bags and punish locals. Our people should not continue suffering and being subjected to unhygienic and dangerous health risks. "The implementation committee need to follow up on this motion and ensure that our county executive arm implements it fully as soon as possible," said Mr Lowoi, the Karuna/Meibeki representative. However, two MCAs Sarah Malel (Kimumu) and David Keitany (Sergoit) opposed the motion saying it was meant to hurt the supermarket business in the county. "All we need to do first is carry out a comprehensive market survey with a view of determining the real facts before victimizing supermarkets for not giving free bags. "They must be having a reason why they ask customers to buy carrier bags or have their own," said Mr Malel. "It is my humble request to this House that you give us ample time to look at the facts and see how we can assist both the locals and businesses over this issue," said Mr Keitany who is also the Assembly's Trade committee chairman.   Initiative to contribute to efforts to protect the planet's oceans.