I met this woman who was in an interesting situation the other day. She had a daughter when she was still a teenager.  She picked up the pieces, finished her studies, got a job, got married and now she has another daughter. These two children live contrasting lives.  The first one lives with a relative who doesn’t have much, gets no love or attention from the mother, every day for her is a struggle. The youngest daughter on the other hand is pampered, hovered over, comfortable. SHAME OR HURT The woman says she is so attentive to her younger daughter because she feels like she failed the first time. In doing so, she neglects her older child, unwittingly tries to erase her mistakes. Her situation is not alien.  A lot of teenage mothers try to move on from their children. Men who have children too early with women they do not love try to break up with their children as they break up with these women. Too often, perhaps because of shame or hurt, we go through life trying to start over after those mistakes or unpleasant experiences.  I think this want to erase our past mistakes is the reason we have so many dead beat fathers. A man will, in an attempt to erase the mistake he made getting with the woman who bore him a child, neglect his fatherhood duties.  I say stop. Just stop. It’s true, those people you may have dated and had children with in your past are a reflection of your choices. You may feel ashamed of these choices, that’s okay. But they are your choices.  BE INTROSPECTIVE It is only by acknowledging this that you can learn the lessons that the relationship with that man that you now think of as a loser taught you.  It is by acknowledging that you may have had a less than healthy relationship with a man that you now can’t stand, a relationship that resulted in a child that you can begin to embrace the lessons you learnt or the fruits of your womb. You have to own all parts of your story. These are your choices. But they are in your past. You are better, you have learnt something. Instead of wasting time and effort trying to erase the past, why not turn it into an opportunity for growth?  Look at it like this, that man you are now ashamed of, that decision that in retrospect makes you squirm in shame, at that time, that was what you wanted. You made a decision and it didn’t work out. So what lesson do you get to take home? Be introspective. Confront those mistakes you’ve made. Forgive yourself if you need to but do not try to erase your past. You can’t. You are the sum total of all your decisions, good and bad. 
  
I see no difference between a woman who chooses to have an abortion and a man who chooses to walk away. 