Fresh from his five shots victory at the Nyanza Open in Kisumu, home player Dennis Saikwa is again the player to beat as some of the country’s top amateurs converge on the par 72 Royal Nairobi Golf Club course for this year’s Uhuru Shield. During the Kisumu event, Saikwa, carded 71 and 77 for a total of 148 gross to beat Vet Lab’s Edwin Mudanyi by five shots while former Golfer of The Year champion Kenneth Bollo, also a Royal player, was third. Surprisingly though, the 54-hole Uhuru Shield which is the second from last in the 2017 Kenya Amateur Golf Championship series has attracted a small field.  This is probably because of the condition of the Royal course which has not been at its best condition lately. All the same, besides the locals Saikwa, Bollo, and Kevin Juma, other players vying for the Shield include Limuru’s Paul Muchangi and John Karichu, and Vet Lab’s Mike Kisia and Robinson Owiti. It will be played over 54-holes with the first round set for Friday afternoon. Meanwhile the Chairman and Captain’s prize events continue this weekend at various clubs in the country. At Thika Sports Club, the Chairman’s Prize which is the biggest and most prestigious event of the year, has attracted a pool of sponsors including Carol Kinoti, Safaricom, Ketepa, Kwal, Johnnie Walker and Nairobi Bottlers. A field of 250 players was drawn to battle it out for an array of prizes. Club chairman, Betty Mutua, the first African lady chair at Thika Sports Club and currently the only lady chair leading a golf club in the country, has also lined up a curtain raiser Friday that will include casino, “mbuzi” and karaoke night. “We expect a large number of social members to participate in all these social activities lined up this weekend. For the golfers, with the Irrigation of the Fairways and the current rains, the course is in an excellent condition and they are in for a super weekend,’’ said Mutua. He said other activities planned included a children’s swimming gala on Saturday where lunch will be provided and medals for the winners while ladies will be treated to free steam and sauna. To crown it all will be dinner dance to be attended by among other some of the recently recruited members. Other chairmen’s prize events will be at Limuru and Vet Lab. Away in Sigona, over 200 players will be in action during the Captain’s (James Mbuthia) prize. At Railway, Lady captain Joyce Gikunda completes her second term with the Lady Captain’s Prize sponsored by NAS Limited. Gikunda thanked Railway lady golfers who having given her the opportunity to serve the club for two years. She said a lot will be at stake this weekend.  At Ndumberi, 50 players are drawn for the Preshama Feeds trophy sponsored by Onesmus Gathara, an animal feeds distributer through his Preshama Feeds limited. The event has attracted top players from Kiambu such as veteran David Ndirangu, leading amateurs Michael Ngene and Michael Karanga and Steve Kiaro all low handicap golfers.  Organizers said “nyama choma’’ and drinks would be in plenty. 
 