Eight people have died and several others injured in two separate crashes on the busy Nairobi-Mombasa highway. Seven died on the spot in Saturday mid-morning head-on collision at Kalimbini area near Sultan Hamud after a hearse ferrying mourners towards Mombasa collided with a truck. TOLL The truck was overtaking another vehicle when it hit the hearse, acting Mukaa police chief Zachariah Bitok said. "The trailer driver fled the scene," Mr Bitok told the Nation. The injured were rushed to various hospitals in Makueni and Machakos counties while the bodies were taken to Machakos Level 5 Hospital mortuary. Makueni County Commissioner Maalim Mohammed said the death toll was likely to rise.   In the second accident, a man died on the spot while five others were injured after a lorry collided with a pick-up at Kiunduani market. The injured were rushed to Makindu Sub County Hospital. Two who were in critical conditions were referred to Kenyatta National Hospital and Nairobi West Hospital, according to sources at the hospital. Over 150 people have died in road crashes across Kenya this month alone, according to official statistics. Investigations show that majority of the accidents were caused by speeding, lane indiscipline, reckless driving and driving under the influence of alcohol and drugs. BLACKSPOTS The National Police Service, National Transport and Safety Authority and the Kenya National Highways Authority on December 15 identified dangerous road stretches where crashes were likely to occur. They are Salgaa, Sachangwan, Migaa and Soysambu in Nakuru County. In Taita Taveta County, Manyani is the area to watch when on the road. Lukenya and Maanzoni in Machakos County are also classified as blackspots. Others are Kiima Kiu/Salama and Konza (Makueni County), Ntulele and Duka Moja Market centre (Narok County) as well as Kenol to Sagana and Kenol to Murang’a sections in Murang’a and Kirinyaga counties. The other blackspot is at Bonje area in Kilifi County. 
  
Police, NTSA and KeNHA identify 15 blackspots where death is a slip away.