As the festive season picks up pace, momentous events are still taking place in Africa. Among them is the long-awaited and crucial African National Congress conference that begins on Saturday. Also set for this month is the national congress of Zimbabwe’s ruling Zanu-PF party, whose date is yet to be announced. The ANC event will take place in Johannesburg between December 16 and 20 and will be attended by delegates from the country’s nine provinces. The delegates will account for 90 per cent of the 5,240 voters, with the rest coming from the party’s leadership structures. Though the ANC has around 4,000 branches, the total number of delegates to the conference will depend on the number of members in every province. VETERANS The youth, women and military veterans’ leagues will be allocated 60 votes each. The event will culminate in the election of a new president of the 103-year-old ANC The winner will replace current party boss, President Jacob Zuma, who is not eligible to vie for the country’s presidency in 2019. Delegates will also vote for candidates vying for the top six party positions, as well as for the additional 80 national executive committee slots. With the winner of the ANC contest expected to become the party’s candidate in the presidential poll, the stakes are high. There are other major developments taking place in Africa, among them the mass repatriation by the African Union of migrants stranded in Libya. The move follows a meeting early this week of a task force made up of AU, European Union and UN officials. SIX WEEKS While the AU aims to bring 20,000 people home in six weeks, individual countries have started their repatriation programmes. Nigeria flew home 144 people while Rwanda offered to take in as many as 30,000 migrants. In Liberia, the Supreme Court on Thursday ordered the electoral commission to proceed with a presidential runoff delayed by claims of fraud. In South Africa, the two frontrunners in the ANC leadership race are Cyril Ramaphosa and Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma. Respected businessman and former labour union leader Ramaphosa, 65, is South African deputy president. Dlamini-Zuma, 68, served as a minister and was the first female AU Commission chairperson. ANC spokesperson Zizi Kodwa has sounded the alarm about vote-buying that could swing the vote. ciugumwagiru@yahoo.co.uk  