The Jubilee party, which has a near-super majority in the National Assembly, has taken charge of various House committee. In the elections held on Wednesday morning, most MPs were elected unopposed. LANDS Kitui South MP Rachael Nyamai was elected Lands committee chairperson. Her deputy is Khatib Mwashetani of Lunga Lunga. Mr Julius Melly (Tinderet) and Amos Kimunya (Kipipiri) were elected Education committee chairman and vice chairman, respectively. The committee on communication, information and innovation will be headed by Marakwet West MP William Kisang. Mr George Macharia of Ndia became vice chairman after Meru Woman Rep Kawira Mwangaza stepped down. For Agriculture, Moiben MP Silas Tiren and Emmanuel Wangwe were elected unopposed as chairman and vice chairman, respectively. The agriculture committee election was overseen by director of committee services Florence Abonyo. Kiambaa MP Paul Koinange was elected as the chairman of the Committee on Administration and National Security. Sirisia MP John Wabuke will be his deputy. The chairman immediately put the police on notice over the killings witnessed during the elections. Mr Koinange, in his acceptance speech, said his immediate task is to improve security in the country. IPOA "We will achieve a lot as a committee if we work together as a team. Security is a challenge in this country and we must help this country as a committee," Mr Koinange said. "We want this committee to provide solutions to the security problems in this country," he added. The chairman praised the Independent Policing Oversight Authority for doing a good job in putting the police to account, adding that the organisation needs support from the committee. Mr Waluke urged the committee MPs to put aside their party interests while dealing with security issues. He told MPs to change so that they can succeed in enhancing security.  "Let's get things right this time. The last committee failed this country on security matters," Mr Waluke said. 
  
Leaders in the two main coalitions fight to be considered for plum positions in Parliament.