Thika United’s fight to retain the SportPesa Premier League got off to a good start after 2-1 win over second tier side Ushuru in the first leg of relegation playoff encounter played at the Thika Sub-County Stadium on Thursday. A goal in each half from Saad Musa and Onwudi Chibueze rendered Mohammed Hassan’s 73rd minute goal invalid in a much attended by Gatundu South Member of Parliament Moses Kuria who promised a Sh300000 cash reward to the hosts should they remain in the topflight.   “I am happy that we came into the game positively, it has been difficult getting the boys back from off-season break but I thank God they overcame everything to win. It’s a morale booster heading into the return leg. "Ushuru will be at home with all the advantage, but our aim is to fight and retain our ticket in the Premier League,” said an elated Thika coach Nicholas Muyoti. His opposite number Ken Kenyatta rued lapse in concentration at the back, but exuded confidence heading into the second leg on Sunday. “They’ve utilised their home advantage and we will have ours on Sunday. The uncertainty of the fixture demoralised the boys that they couldn’t show up in numbers in training and missing a majority of my key players, it was going to be tough but in two days’ time we will fight,” he said. Thika, who moved to court to challenge the playoff, started brightly despite reporting to camp on the eve of the fixture. Eugene Mukangula’s tapped in Said Tsuma’s cross in the 17th minute but referee Davies Omweno ruled it out for offside. Saad Musa, who replaced injured Michael Mutinda in the 14th minute, opened the scoring with a close range tap in a minute after the half hour mark. Mukangula latched onto a long pass from Tsuma, weaved through three Ushuru shirts on the right flank, and drove into the box to feed Chibueze, whose shot was punched by Kennedy Obwanda in Ushuru goal, Saad slotting home the rebound. The taxmen created scoring chances but were let down by poor finishing. Two minutes after the hour mark, Ken Kenyatta pulled out Roosevelt Blaty for Mohammed and the change paid dividend in the 73rd minute, with the former AFC Leopards and Sony Sugar man’s left foot volley leaving Eliud Emase with no chance. With four minutes remaining, Saad turned provider to the Nigerian import, teeing him up with a precise pass that the striker shot past Obwande. 
 