Harambee Stars certainly will face a challenging year in 2019, starting in September, when the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations qualifiers resume in earnest. Kenya is already trailing Sierra Leone and Ghana in Group “F” that also includes Ethiopia, in the race to qualify for the continental showpiece in Cameroon.  Group winners will secure automatic berths to the African finals with 11 best runners up also making it. Stars players, however, should be motivated following a pledge by the government to reward them with Sh50 million should they secure qualification to the continental showpiece for the first time in more than a decade.  “We are now down to serious business,” Deputy President William Ruto announced while meeting the players at his official residence in Karen on Tuesday. “I assure you, if you qualify (to play in the tournament), I also will make time and travel with you to Cameroon to cheer you on. Should you win the tournament, again, we will reward you.” To be assured of qualification as among the best team in the group or among the 11 best runners up, Kenya will have to win all her three home games against Sierra Leone, Ethiopia and Ghana starting September. For good measure, the team has to at least pick something in the away game against Ethiopia in Addis Ababa.  “We have been lacking such motivation and support from the government,” Stars’ Zambia-based striker Jesse Were said. “Now we are ready to fight and create a little bit of history. Impossible is nothing.” PROMISED A BUS The team has also been promised a bus, which Nation Sport understands will be purchased in Germany and have such creature comforts as air conditioner, Wifi, large screen, DVD player, plus a toilet.  Kenya last featured at the Africa Nations Cup in 2004. Then under the tutelage of Jacob Mulee, Stars defeated Togo, Mauritania and Cape Verde Islands in the qualifiers to earn the right to play in the tournament which was staged in Tunisia. Since then, the national team has competed in seven editions of the qualifiers without success. Can this current squad break this jinx? 
 