I am 47 years old and my wife is 43. We got married 24 years ago and we have been living together since then. God has blessed us with two children.  Sometimes last year, my wife requested me to allow her to join a women group near our residential house, which I did. Since then, she started attending the so called chama meetings frequently.  Little did I know that this was the beginning of the end of our marriage. We no longer talk as we used to. One day, I realised she had started using female condoms without consulting me, and when I asked her about it, she became hostile and said I had stressed her a lot.  I just kept quiet and went to sleep. Since then, we don’t discuss anything. I am worried and have thus been keeping my distance. I have been watching her keenly, and she is still using the condoms while our bed is cold. Please advise. Tom  A: You seem to blame the rift in your marriage on your wife, and mostly on the chamas that she joined. On the contrary, that is not the cause of your tiff, but rather unresolved issues in your marriage that have been piling for years.  Keep in mind that this is a problem that needs to be faced head-on if this marriage is to survive. Your wife, you say, started getting distant immediately she joined the women group. Is this really the truth? Could she have become distant earlier and you did not notice it, and probably joining the group could have been a way of finding solace to fill the emotional void that she already had?  These are the hard questions that you must ask yourself as you try to tackle this issue. Your wife could have become distant probably because she is concealing some kind of conflict that she does not know how to talk about. This could mean she is angry with you, but she does not want to discuss her grievance.  She is probably just afraid that you will not take her seriously, or it will blow up into some big fight. So she could be trying to smother her feelings, rather than open up. I am aware that this is irritating from your side but communication between you and her is the only way out.  You have given the matter a silent treatment, and it has not worked. So try the other option-dialogue. Approach the issue sensitively and let your wife know how you feel.  Discuss with her the issue of using condoms without your consent, and let her explain the reason behind it.  This issue can be fixed through showing her that you are willing to hear where she is coming from. You have to demonstrate that she shouldn’t be afraid to share her feelings, and also that you are a man enough to accept criticism. All the best. 
  
Beatrice and her friend were among the few who survived the tragedy