Sing’ore Girls in Elgeyo-Marakwet County beat more decorated national schools to emerge the top school in the 2017 KCSE examination results released on Wednesday. The extra-county school, located in the remote part of the county, recorded its best performance ever although it has been posting good results over the years. The school emerged top countrywide with a mean score of 69.9 points. Light Academy in Mombasa came second with 69.1 points, followed by Alliance Girls’ School (68.6 points), Kenya High School (68.2 points) and Loreto Girls Limuru (68.1 points). PERFORMANCESing’ore is one of the most sought-after schools in the county despite not being a national school. It is best known for its strict discipline regime. The school has always beaten national schools in the county such as St Patrick’s Iten and Moi Girls Kapsowar despite the two enjoying better facilities and stature. The school was not made a national school despite its consistent academic success after the Ministry of Education picked Moi Girls Kapsowar. DISCIPLINEThe school’s Principal, Rose Koech, whose mobile phones were inundated with congratulatory messages and calls, said she was not surprised by the sterling performance because of the hard work the students and the teachers had put in. The principal said discipline, hard work and trust in God had seen the school post impressive results in the last four years. The school is sponsored by the Catholic Church and Ms Koech said the performance was a dedication to the former Eldoret Diocese Bishop Cornelius Korir who passed away in early November. “We are now sure the Bishop is smiling wherever he is following these impressive results,” the principal said. ALLIANCEThe school had 271 candidates. “So far, the last index number holder – 271 – who I believe should be the candidate with the lowest grade, has scored a B,” the principal said. Two students, Joyce Murisha and Purity Kimaiyo, who scored A-minus and B-plus respectively, said they had worked hard throughout the four years of schooling. “Our target mean for this year was 9.5 and we are very happy to have done our best,” Ms Murisha said on Wednesday. “Our vision has always been to make Sing’ore the Alliance of the region. And we are happy we have beaten the best schools in the country. We are now the best,” she added. Elgeyo-Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos congratulated the school for the sterling performance. “As a county government, we are proud to identify with the school’s performance,” said the governor.   Examiners cite inadequate language skills cited as a major challenge.