Kenya Ports Authority will start their Kenya Basketball Federation men’s Premier League title defence against Equity Bank in Game One of their best-of-three series play-offs quarter-final at Upper Hill School Saturday from 4pm. KPA, who qualified for the play-offs after finishing second on the 12-team table standings with 41 points, have had enough time to prepare giving them an edge. Equity, who scooped the seventh spot with 32 points, will have their work cut out for them. KPA clobbered Equity Bank 86-61 in the regular season in Nairobi and aggressive Felix Omondi, Brian Obimbo, Maina Irungu and Ian Wachie have an uphill task of pulling off an upset before their home fans.  With the next two matches in Mombasa, KPA under coach Sammy Kiki are favoured to reach the semi-finals.  “I am confident of winning Game One away to make work easier at our back yard’’ said Kiki. KPA women, who lost 2-3 to Equity Bank in last year’s play-offs final, will continue with their hunt for the title they last won in 2013 as they confront weak Oryx.  KPA, unbeaten this season after finishing top in the regular season with 38 points, are hot favourites to knock out Oryx with little struggle. After recently posting their best performance in the Fiba Africa women’s club championship by finishing fifth in Luanda, Angola, KPA’s experienced Betty Kananu, Felmas Adhiambo, Vyonne Akinyi and Georgia Adhiambo are expected to teach the varsity students some game lessons. USIU-A Flames, who had a poor season to finish fourth with 29 points, will meet fifth rated Strathmore University in Game One of the quarter-final.  In the lower tier play-offs matches, Strathmore University men and women’s teams will host Kisumu Lady Bucks and Lakeside respectively in the quarter final Game One matches. On Sunday at the same venue, Co-op Bank will lock horns with Umoja in a Game Three decider of the best-of-three series quarter final.  Superstar Nick Ogolla scored game-high 23 points while Gilbert Obiero nailed 12 as Umoja battled behind to beat Co-op Bank 59-48 in Game Two. Both teams are tied 1-1 and Sunday’s cracker will determine who qualifies for the semi-final. Co-op Bank won Game One 57-41. Blades will take on USIU-A Tigers in their men’s Premier League semi-final deciding match after both teams locked the best-of-three series play-offs quarter final 1-1.  Blades rocked Tigers 70-57 but coach Isaac Musyoki’s USIU-A leveled the series 1-1 with a narrow 59-58 win in Game Two. FIXTURES Saturday  KDF Morans v Little Prince (8.30am), Oryx v KPA (10am), Strathmore v Kisumu Lady Bucks (11.30am), Strathmore v Kisumu Lakeside (1pm), Flames v Strathmore (2.30pm), Equity v KPA (4pm) Sunday:  Little Prince v KDF Morans (8.30am), Emyba v Blazers (10am), Lakeside v Strathmore University (11.30am), Strathmore v Flames (1pm), Co-op Bank v Umoja (2.30pm), Blades v USIU-A Tigers (4pm) 
 