The majority of all-time academic giants in Nakuru, Nyandarua and Laikipia counties retained their top positions, producing the best candidates in this year’s Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education examination. In Nakuru County, Moi High School - Kabarak, Mary Mount Secondary School, Nakuru Girls and Anestar Boys’ High were among the giants that produced top candidates. Moi High School - Kabarak, which last year produced 2As, managed 7As and more than 11A- (minus). The school had 338 candidates this year. Students with A plain included Mahmoud Fuaad (82 points), Rugut Faith Jepkosgei (81 points), Kangangi Marvin Chomba (81), Vernon Ipomai (81 points) and Bett Jadiel Kipkosgei (81 points). HARD WORKThose with A- (minus) included Leon Nashon Agola (78 points), Wenslaus Mwinamo Demesi (76 points), Isutsah John Musonye (78 points), Jemutai Anna (79 points), Chelagat Jamila (76 points), Kitulu Lee (76 points ), Nyangaga Diana (76 points) and Wanjohi Edward Kathira (77 points). Mr John Limo, the teacher in charge of academics, said they were happy with the performance and attributed it to proper preparations, discipline and hard work. “We are proud of our students who performed well,” he said. BRIGHT STUDENTSSong and dance broke out at Mary Mount Secondary in Molo Sub-County after it produced one of the top girls in Nakuru County, Lillian Chepkoech Korir (A plain, 81 points). She was followed by Cynthia Kerubo Mogere (A- 77 points) and Mubia Ann Wanjiku (A- 75 points). Lillian is a beneficiary of the Wings to Fly programme and comes from Kapsimbeiywo Village, Kuresoi South Sub-County. Schoolteacher Daniel Muchiri said they had hoped to perform better than last year. “We are still compiling the results. By tomorrow, we will know our mean score,” he said. In Laikipia, Nyahururu Boys’ High School’s Mukuna Dennis Onsongo had a B+ of 73 points followed by Kihiu Stephen (B+ 68 points). — Reports by E. Matara, P. Mburu, Magdalene Wanja, Reitz Mureithi, W. Maina, G. Sayagie, Macharia Mwangi and Steve Njuguna   This year, the results were released 11 days earlier than last year’s.