Princes William and Harry attended the European premiere of Star Wars: The Last Jedi on Tuesday. The British royals joined the all-star cast in London for the latest instalment of the sci-fi saga, walking the red carpet in tuxedos at London's Royal Albert Hall. They arrived to a spectacle of the rolling droid character BB-8 who dutifully bowed to them. It has been confirmed that the brothers have cameo roles as storm troopers in the film, after visiting the set in April 2016. LUPITA'S TAKE Lupita Nyong'o, who plays the motion-captured character Maz Kanata, said the film is important as a form of escapism. "I think the importance of fantasy is that it allows us to first of all, escape from the world we're in for a second and it brings us all together and unifies us in a way, on a subject, in a way that other things don't," she said. "And for a moment we get to forget our own worries and worry about the galaxy far, far away." Filmed at Pinewood Studios near London and on the west coast of Ireland, The Last Jedi is the eighth film in the space series and runs to a lengthy 153 minutes. Mark Hamill, who plays Luke Skywalker in the films, said the longevity of Star Wars had seen his character make way for new stars. "It's like a bunch of kids rifling through my old toy box, playing with my toys... I love it!" he told AFP at the premiere. Despite 40 years passing since the intergalactic saga first hit cinemas, the cast members of Rian Johnson's Last Jedi are convinced it still has contemporary relevance. "I think it really deals with issues the world is facing at the moment, about politics which splits people apart and the spark of hope which is going to bring people back together again," Andy Serkis, who stars as Supreme Leader Snoke, told AFP. READ: New "Star Wars" lets women take the lead   The cast came together in a secret location in Los Angeles with director Rian Johnson to build buzz for the latest chapter in the blockbuster space saga, which hits theaters on December 15.