The push for secession will only come to an end when Nasa leader Raila Odinga will be sworn in as ‘president’ through the established people’s assembly, Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa has said. She said electoral and historical injustices in the country that led to marginalisation of some parts of the country is the main reason why the Coast region will break away. Last weekend, Mr Odinga said nobody will stop him from being sworn-in as 'president’. Earlier this week, the Attorney-General Githu Muigai warned Mr Odinga that he faces the death penalty should he be sworn in as "people’s president", and at the same time chided top lawyers in the opposition for misleading the former Prime Minister to take an “illegal” oath. Speaking during the an award ceremony for top KCPE candidates at her Kakuyuni home in Malindi, Ms Jumwa said time has come when citizens have decided to exercise their democratic powers at the grassroots level. The ODM legislator said this follows concern of persistent electoral fraud that has denied Kenyans the right to practice their democratic right. “When one party single-handedly runs the Parliament and Senate like their own house, citizens have a right to directly exercise their democratic powers as enshrined in the Constitution,” she said. UNSTOPPABLE  Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi and his Mombasa counterpart Hassan Joho have also declared that their path for secession and self-determination of the coast region is unstoppable. At the same time, Ms Jumwa defended her Msambweni counterpart Suleiman Dori remarks against Mr Odinga saying he was right since coast leaders need to also have slots in the House Committee. Ms Jumwa, a nominee of Parliamentary Service Commission (PSC) said Coast region residents voted overwhelmingly for Mr Odinga and they were bitter when Nasa failed to give them a fair number of slots in the PSC. “When someone loves you so much and fail to explain himself when you are short-changed, you will be bitter and Mr Dori who is the coast parliamentary chairman was right,” she added. Mr Dori had claimed that although the region voted overwhelmingly for Nasa, its leaders and residents have not been treated well within the opposition, especially on sharing of House committee seats. 
  
President has warned governors calling for parts of the country to break away. 