Patrick Matasi’s return in goal for Harambee Stars at the Cecafa Senior Challenge Cup seems convincing enough, so much that the team’s vocal support base seems to have barely noticed Boniface Oluoch’s absence. The Posta Rangers custodian is expected to continue in goal in Kenya’s third consecutive Group ‘A’ match against Zanzibar in Machakos from 4pm Saturday having kept clean sheets in the opening duels against Rwanda and Libya in Kakamega and Machakos respectively. On his part, the former AFC Leopards goalkeeper concedes his eagerness to repay the coach’s faith in his ability. “I honestly didn’t expect to be an automatic starter here and I’m thinking the coach must have seen something in me,” the player explains.  “It leaves me with no choice. I have to work hard and concentrate on improving in each training session and game. That’s what he (the coach) has demanded.”  Commenting on this subject, the team’s ex-coach James Nandwa suggests his successor Paul Put knows ‘exactly what he’s doing.’ Said Nandwa, who led Kenya to the final of the 2012 Cecafa Senior Challenge Cup in Kampala:  “Matasi has done very well. That said, Oluoch too is a good player and it’s encouraging for a coach to be faced with such a problem of two quality players in the same position available for selection. He knows what he is doing.”  TOP MARKSMEN The goalkeeping scenario aside, Stars who’ve generally impressed in their win against Rwanda and stalemate against the north Africans,  will have to be wary of the islanders who lead the group with six points following wins against Rwanda and Tanzania.  Kenya are second with four points in two outings. Put will rely on top marksmen Masoud Juma, kepha Aswani, George “Blackberry” Odhiambo and Vincent Oburu for the goals, even as he drills his rear guard consisting Matasi, defenders Musa Mohammed and Joackins Atudo in readiness for an assault from Hereos forwards Yahya Mudathir, Issa Juma and Kassim Suleiman. Rwanda will face Tanzania at the same venue from 2pm in the other fixture of the day. Defending champions Uganda Cranes hammered South Sudan 5-1 to move on top of Group ‘B’ at Kakamega’s Bukhungu Stadium on Friday. The victors scored their goals via Kalisa Milton, Hood Kaweesa, Derrick Nsibambi (two) and Nicholas Wadada. Sudan scored their consolation goal via Luak Atak.The victory propelled the 14-times Champions to the top of the standings with four points to tie with Burundi.  The former, however, have a superior goal difference of four against three of Burundi with both teams having played two matches. Ethiopia are in third position with three points from two matches played while South Sudan are at the bottom of the table with no point after also playing two matches. FIERCE RESISTENCE Uganda, who had been tipped to walk over South Sudan easily, received fierce resistance from their opponents. But the Ugandans, who mostly used the flanks to attack, were on the mark barely seven minutes into the match when Nsimbambi’s cross found unmarked Milton who hit the top of the roof for the opener. 
 