Trade and Industrialisation Cabinet Secretary Adan Mohammed’s revelation that the anti-counterfeiting agency is holding fake and illegitimate goods worth more than Sh800 million is alarming. In December alone, the agency seized goods valued at Sh70 million. All these show how deep the vice has gone and the networks involved. Worse, although the anti-counterfeit agency has done a commendable job to rein in the dubious dealers, a lot remains to be done. There are several weak points that the traders exploit to bypass the system and bring in fake goods. REVENUETrade in counterfeits has dreadful ramifications on the economy. First, it jeopardises local production with firms crowded out of business resulting in loss of jobs and revenues. In fact, depressed productivity and earnings force firms out of business with disastrous consequences. Second, it denies the government huge revenues as traders bring in their stuff through the backdoor and avoid taxation. Third, the counterfeits pose serious health and physical hazards to the citizens. They are neither inspected to guarantee safety requirements nor is their condition ascertained. CORRUPTIONHowever, trade involves a long network consisting of security, health, immigration and quality officers. It is not possible to import huge quantities of hazardous goods if the fellows manning entry points, police officers and quality officers do their work. Traders have learnt how to line the pockets of the watchdogs and ensure their goods get in without questioning. This is why we ask Mr Mohammed to start with a clean-up of his ministry and ensure that the responsible agencies do their work effectively. He must rope in immigration, health and security departments. COMMITMENT Fighting counterfeits is a long-drawn-out war and must be pursued consistently and persistently. The challenge, however, is that the authorities make sporadic announcement and take few steps but go back to their comfort zones and let the ruthless and dubious traders run amok. Mr Mohammed must enforce stringent rules to rout counterfeit trade that is killing local industries and pose serious health risks to the citizens.  