Bongo flava star Diamond Platinumz, who is currently riding high with his latest jam “Sikomi” has splashed Tsh100 million (Sh4.5 Million) on a new mansion as a gift to his newly married cousin DJ  Rommy Jones .It looks like the gift of giving runs in the family as the generous gesture came hot on the heels of a similar one by Diamond’s mother. Sanura gifted her nephew with a piece of land worth Tsh80 Million (Sh 3.6 million) during his lavish Arabic-themed wedding over the weekend. “Mwanzo namshukuru kakangu, naamini kufika hapa nilipofika ni yeye kanitengeneza kwa sababu nimekuwa naye tangu chekechea, shule ya msingi hadi hapa. Ina maana kama asingekuwa akiniongoza basi nisingefika hapa. Wakati naanza muziki yeye ndiye niliyekuwa nikimtumia kama chambo kwa sababu nilikuwa naogopa kuwafuata wasani... Na ndio maana nikasema kwamba shughuli nzima nitasimamia na sijamwambia nitapa zawadi gani. Lakini mimi zawadi nitakayompa ndugu yangu Rommy Jones namwambia, azunguke zunguke anapoona yeye akikutana na kibanda kisichozidi milioni mia aje nimlipie.”(I want to thank my brother because were it not for him, I wouldn’t be who I am today. We have been through much together since in nursey school up to high school to date. He guided me and showed me the way and even when I started doing music and I was shy to approach artistes. I used him as bait. It’s for this reason that decided to foot all the bills of the wedding ceremony. I ask him to find a house worth not more than Tsh100 million and I will pay it for him.”The two men were raised together by their single mums in Tandale slums, Dar es Salaam.  Rommy went on to become a  radio DJ and presenter. When Diamond showed his passion for music, he helped him through his networks in the bongo flava showbiz world to kickstart his career that took off in 2009 when he released his first ever hit  “Kamwabie” at the tender age of 19. However it’s not the first time Diamond has shown his generosity as he  recently bought his baby mama Hamisa Mobetto a brand new Rav 4 worth about Sh2 million. When he dated popular bongo movie actress Wema Sepetu, he surprised her with a brand new Nissan Murano on her 25th birthday party. Recently in his diss-track song “Sikomi” to his exes, he revealed that he bought another of his exes VJ Penny Mungilwa a car after she informed him she was carrying his child only for her to abort the baby later.   
 