Adelle Onyango met with Prince William and Catherine Duchess of Cambridge as they arrived for a children's summit on on Wednesday, December 6, 2017 in Manchester, England. The Duchess, who is expecting her third child, spent several minutes with Adelle to discuss cultural differences between Kenya and the UK as well as effects of cyberbullying on internet users.  Though Adelle is popularly known for her bubbly conversations on KISS100 FM, she rose to international limelight when she began a campaign against rape and online harassment.  READ: Rapist stole my dignity, but I won’t let him crush my spirit Her efforts were lauded by the BBC who then named her among their award-winning 100 women and later chose her to represent Kenya in this year’s Children Global Media Summit. The summit kicked off on Tuesday bringing together creatives, technology innovators, policymakers, executives and thought leaders from across the globe. This year’s focus will be to inform and redesign the future of media for Generation Unlimited (Generation U) and explore the impact that digital technology will have in children’s future. She has a robust social media platform #TeamADELLE through which she mentors and inspires young people to maximise their potential and achieve their dreams. Major global brands such as ABC, Facebook, Netflix, Viacom Africa and many others are also represented at the summit which will end on Friday. On her arrival at Manchester, UK, she revealed her delight in being part of conversations that would ensure online safety and media-relevant education programs for the next generation. GLOBAL PANELISTS When Adelle got listed on BBC 100 women in October, she assured her fans that she would use the opportunity as a global platform to push for the agenda for empowerment. As one of the global panellists in the summit, Adelle is taking on the world to push the agenda for innovation, education, empowerment, freedom and entertainment for Generation U.   The Children’s Global Media Summit, formally known as World Summit on Media for Children, was founded in 1995 and is held every three years in different parts of the world. It is hosted by independent groups and organisations that adhere to the summits mandate of providing quality media for children. The 2017 summit is unique in that for the first time, the content of the event is being curated by the BBC in conjunction with diverse academic institutions, policymakers and broadcast partners to create a rich program that will reflect the world of media through eyes of a young global audience. 
  
Radio personality Adelle Onyango has been a victim of cyber bullying one too many times. She however has been gracious about it, kept her chin up and continues to speak up about it and encouraging other victims as well.