WASHINGTON, US President Donald Trump has lashed out at the women who have accused him of sexual harassment, denouncing their "false accusations and fabricated stories," after several of them called for Congress to investigate him. Three women who claim they were sexually harassed by Trump before he ran for president urged lawmakers Monday to open an inquiry into his behaviour and allegations of misconduct. KISSES Rachel Crooks, who worked as a receptionist in Trump Tower in New York, says the Republican president forcibly kissed her on the mouth after she introduced herself to him in 2005. Jessica Leeds, who says she was groped and forcibly kissed by Trump on a commercial flight decades ago, said the president has not been held accountable for "what he is and who he is." On Twitter, Trump struck back — and seemingly accused Democrats of egging on the women who addressed reporters about the alleged harassment. "Despite thousands of hours wasted and many millions of dollars spent, the Democrats have been unable to show any collusion with Russia - so now they are moving on to the false accusations and fabricated stories of women who I don't know and/or have never met. FAKE NEWS!" he tweeted on Tuesday. SHAME A group of 54 Democratic women in Congress called for a probe on Monday, and Democratic Senator Kirsten Gillibrand called on Trump to resign. The president bashed her as a "lightweight" and said she "would come to my office 'begging' for campaign contributions not so long ago (and would do anything for them)" — a tweet that earned quick scorn from the senator. "You cannot silence me or the millions of women who have gotten off the sidelines to speak out about the unfitness and shame you have brought to the Oval Office," Gillibrand fired back. Sixteen women have come forward with claims of misconduct by Trump, who boasted in a video tape that surfaced during the campaign that he could kiss and grope women with impunity, because of his celebrity. Three US lawmakers announced their resignations from Congress last week over sexual harassment allegations, including Democratic Senator Al Franken of Minnesota. 
 