Harambee Stars players are set to become millionaires in the next year or so.  However, they will first have to overcome a dismal start and qualify for the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations set for Cameroon. Deputy President William Ruto on Tuesday hosted the national team for breakfast at his official residence in Karen, where he promised a government reward of Sh50 million if they qualify for the continental showpiece. “We are now down to serious business,” the DP said, with the announcement generating excitement on social media. “I can assure you, if you qualify (for the tournament), I will travel with you to Cameroon and cheer you on. Should you win the tournament, we will again reward you.” CASH REWARDThe gathering was primarily aimed at celebrating Stars’ triumph in the just-concluded Cecafa Senior Challenge Cup tournament at Kenyatta Stadium in Machakos County. On the day, President Uhuru Kenyatta, who was represented by his deputy at the match venue, rewarded the players with Sh10 million.  Mr Ruto offered another Sh5 million in cash, which he handed over to the captain, Musa Mohammed. “Thank you very much. I can tell you these players are very happy and excited. We will not let you down,” a beaming Mohammed said.  CECAFA A vastly improved squad, now under the guidance of coach Paul Put, Stars displayed some exciting football to easily triumph in the 10-team regional football tournament after defeating Zanzibar 3-2 on post-match penalties at the packed Kenyatta Stadium on Sunday. Kenya and Zanzibar had drawn one-all after 90 minutes, and two-all after extra time. Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua was also among the spectators.  Earlier, Harambee Stars defeated Tanzania, Rwanda and Burundi, and was drawn against Libya and Zanzibar during the two-week tournament staged in Kakamega, Machakos and Kisumu, to make it to the final. AFRICA CUP OF NATIONSMr Ruto, who is fast transforming into an ardent football fan, also pledged to award the national team with an executive bus. The Daily Nation understands the bus will be purchased in Germany and fitted with several comfort amenities — including an air conditioner, Wi-Fi, a large screen DVD player and a toilet. “Use this money to celebrate with your families during Christmas. Please, don’t celebrate by smoking shisha or taking alcohol. Just take soda or tea,” Mr Ruto said. “It (qualification for the Africa Cup of Nations) is now a real possibility. With this kind of support, I don’t see any team stopping us,” Stars goalkeeper Patrick Matasi, who was singled out by the DP for praise, said. “The (bus) pledge is very much welcome. The federation spends most of its finances on flights, local transport and accommodation. So we are certain to significantly save going forward,” Football Kenya Federation (FKF) media officer Barry Otieno said. SUPPORTSports Cabinet Secretary Hassan Wario and PS Kirimi Kaberia, SportPesa CEO Ronald Karauri, as well as FKF officials, also attended the breakfast meeting. “The Africa Nations Cup qualification has always been our dream. I am excited the government shares this vision,” Mr Karauri said. Stars players have also been awarded Sh3 million from the tournament organisers, the Council for East and Central Africa Football Associations, a similar amount from sponsors SportPesa, Sh1 million from governors Mike Sonko (Nairobi) and Mutua each, plus vouchers worth Sh350,000 from Tuskys, for winning the Senior Challenge Cup.  Each player and the technical bench official could pocket up to Sh850,000 from these rewards. 
 