A fourteen-year-old orphan is nursing serious injuries after she was reportedly assaulted by her uncle in Ogwedhi Village, Migori County. The girl suffered severe bruising and burns and is admitted at the Migori County Referral Hospital. ASSAULT The girl, who was taken to the hospital by Remo Sub-Location assistant chief William Jabedo, said her uncle attacked her after accusing her of being rude to her ailing grandmother, who is her guardian. "My uncle said I had answered my grandmother rudely and descended on me with a huge stick. He beat me all over," said the distraught girl on Thursday. The girl said her uncle beat her severely on her back and burnt her the right leg, then locked her up for a week. "He took a hot metal rod and placed it on my leg. It was so painful," narrated the girl. RESCUE The Assistant Chief said that a villager, who did not want to be identified, called him and said that a teenage girl has been brutally assaulted at Ogwedhi Village. "The villagers called me earlier today and informed me of a girl who was brutally flogged and locked up in a house for eight days by her uncle. I rushed there to find out," said Mr Jabedo. The administrator said he rushed the girl to the nearby Ogwedhi Health Centre and was immediately referred to Migori County Referral Hospital, where the teenage is now admitted with a fractured hand and several bruises on her body. When Nation visited her at the hospital, she was in severe pain and had a large wound on her right leg. Neighbours said the girl’s uncle often beats her. "We heard the girl scream at the wee hours of the night on Wednesday last week. We learnt that the uncle was punishing the girl as he does often. We didn't know it was this serious," said Ms Sarah Atieno, a neighbour. SUSPECT The nurses attending to her at the hospital said that the girl is in stable condition. The assistant chief said the suspect is on the run but police are looking for him. Migori police boss Joseph Nthenge said officers are investigating. He urged residents to help them find the suspect so he can be arrested and questioned over the assault. 
 