Can you imagine learning alongside wild animals? For students at Multimedia University of Kenya, this is a daily reality. Warthogs, baboons and monkeys are just but a few of the wild animals that a student is bound to encounter in pursuit of his or her studies. The reason is simple: the university is located next to the Nairobi National park so animals often stray into its lush green compound. The university has a nature park in the school which is open to the public. The nature park is a gateway to wildlife with a variety of flowers, plants and a dense cover of trees. Chances are very high that you will encounter a group of baboons loitering. The baboons are friendly to people because they have spent a lot of time 'interacting' with students. It is normal to have a monkey interrupting a class session at the university by scratching windows. The primates have made the place their home.   Early in the morning, they can be seen walking from the forest to areas occupied by students, such as, hostels, dining hall, business centre and classes. They provide good entertainment to students and staff, thanks to their tree hopping antics though sometimes they are an insurance when they grab fruits from people. WARTHOGS FOUND A HOME Warthogs have also found a home at the institution. While they would never attack someone unprovoked, one has to show them a certain amount of respect because of their power and sharp tusks.   Though they have been branded ugly, they provide a beautiful sight at the institution. The institution has constructed gazebos where students read and spend their free time whilst enjoying the serene environment provided by the trees, vegetation and animals.   To compete the experience, the institution owns a club house and swimming pool adjacent to the nature park. The facility is open to students and members of the public. It cost Sh100 a day to swim at the expansive pool for non-students. The club house has other services such as bar, hotel, sauna and spa. Non-students and non-staff must avail an identification card at the entrance and go through a security check. 
 