A ward representative from Nyeri County has died. Ruguru MCA Peter Weru died on Tuesday while receiving treatment at Outspan Hospital, Nyeri Governor Mutahi Kahiga said. He suffered a heart attack, Dr Jeff Muigai, the medical officer in charge at the hospital said. He was rushed to Jamii Hospital and later transferred to Outspan Hospital in Nyeri town after his condition worsened. CRITICAL “He went into cardiac arrest when he was Jamii Hospital and decision made that he needed to be under intensive care unit. We received him in a very critical condition,” he said. Mr Weru was forced to cut short his speech during Jamhuri Day celebration at Nduduini Primary School in Mathira Constituency when he felt dizzy. He took his seat and complained of a headache. He was immediately rushed to Jamii Hospital in Karatina town using Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua's vehicle who was also attending the ceremony. According to Nyeri County Assembly Speaker John Kaguchia doctors at the hospital tried to stabilise him but his condition worsened. Mr Weru, who was serving as the chair of the Health committee, had attended special sitting at the assembly on Monday and appeared to be in good health. Mr Kaguchia described him as a friendly, reasonable and mature politician. “He was a person who would resolve situation sin a very composed manner. Our prayer is that God spares the county from any other calamity,” Kaguchia said. Nyeri County Majority Leader James Kanyugo called for investigations in to the death of his colleagues to rule out foul play.  “We hope and pray that this is a natural death but we want investigation conducted so we can rule out foul play,” He said.  The deceased had a pending election petition before a Karatina court where Mr James Ndegwa Macharia is seeking to nullify the election  The deceased had 4,046 votes against the petitioner's 3,407 votes.  His brother Nahashon, described him as a polite and selfless man.  He has left behind a wife and two children.   More follows. 
 