Two weekends ago I was at the marathon with my friend Don about to run the half marathon. I have been running all of my 30s. Sometimes I fall of the wagon for a few weeks, maybe a month, but then get back on. Running is addictive. It clears your mind and strengthens your heart. Life is full of intrusions – ringing phones, inane WhatsApp messages, relentless emails, deadlines, thoughts of money and how to make more… Running is probably the only time I’m truly alone with my thoughts, with only the sound of my feet pounding the ground, the beating of my heart and the thoughts in my head. Apart from writing and being a father, running is the only other thing I have done consistently for the past 10 years. And that’s saying a lot. So there we were, milling about with the rest at the starting point of the 21km race, the morning cloudy, grey and dull, a slight drizzle threatening to put the kibosh on our run. But we were undeterred; we were feeling youthful and poised and energetic. Standing not too far from us was this black gentleman with a mane of white hair and a white beard. He must have been 65 or something, but lean like a cheetah. He had the hooded eyes of a man who has seen enough in life to write a great play about it. He was stretching his limbs, lost in his own pre-race thoughts. “That will be you in 20 years,” Don said when he caught me staring at Mr White Man. I chuckled and said, “Well, that’s a long way off.” Then he said, “Can you remember when you turned 30?” Of course I remember when I turned 30. It feels like two years ago. My 30s have gone by in a blur. My 40s will also go by in a blur; so will my 50s, and before long I will be here with my mop of white hair, stretching my limbs, jogging on the spot, my elbows wrinkled and some young chaps staring at me as if they will never be as old as I am. Looking at him filled me with deep introspection. It also filled me with anxiety. Those thoughts of my sunset years filled my head during the run and shook around my skull. I wondered if I have lived abundantly enough to not fear death. I want to think I have. That old man put me in an interesting frame of mind during the run and he challenged me to think how I want to live my life in the 60s; hopefully still enjoying my run and my writing and my children will have grown into adults and maybe I would have escaped a jail term from slapping someone’s son and ruining his eardrums for handling my daughter inappropriately. At the four-kilometre mark, I him again; he was a surefooted runner – steady, head down, trudging along as if counting his steps, not bothered about racing with the rest. Watching him run was also a lesson in itself, because you can almost tell how people live their life by how they run. Some race you because they are competitive; they want to buy the car because a neighbour or colleague did. They put a lot of importance in being first. Some run fast and then wear out. Some run with music to lock out the hullabaloo of life; they like to live in their world. Some show off with their running clothes and their shoes. They are there for the show, not for the run. Some are loud, screaming and saying hello loudly to people they see; they seek attention. Some are selfless – I saw a man get off his trail and push another competitor in a wheelchair up Museum Hill. I bet he’s a kind man in life; giving, selfless. There are some who will pass you but offer encouraging words: “Don’t give up, you are almost there.” Then there are those who cut corners; they slip under barriers, they cheat. You can tell how such people conduct business. Then there are those who give up. They stop because they can’t go any further, their bodies and minds have failed them. And that’s also fine. Giving up isn’t a terminal condition. But then when you turn a corner, and you are coming towards them in the opposite direction, you see them running again, putting one foot after the other, one day at a time. Those are people who don’t give up on themselves. The old man trotted along, in his own lane, at his own pace, as a sea of humanity passed him, and he never looked up, he never looked bothered. Perhaps because he knows something about running just as he knows something about life. He knows it because he’s lived it and has done his time and made his bones. And that’s beauty.   Stop thinking that all husbands and wives should fit into the cookie-cutter roles you were told existed in days of yore.