For his love of art, Dedan Wachira, 24, has on many occasions been at loggerheads with his family.  He first disagreed with his parents in 2010, when he turned down a rare offer to join Moi High School Mbiruri, a national school, in favour of Kianyaga Boys, a county school. “I wanted to join a school that offered art as a subject,” narrates Wachira. While in Form Two, Wachira threatened to quit his studies to join an art school. This further drove a wedge between him and his parents.  HAY STACKS N' JAZZ “When I declared my interest in joining the Buruburu Institute of Fine Arts (Bifa) as a Form Two student, my parents forbade it. I kept insisting, to no avail,” he recounts. After high school, though, Wachira’s dream of studying art came true when his parents enrolled him for a diploma in fine arts at Bifa. In 2015, he joined Kenyatta University, where he is currently a third year art student. Earlier this year, Wachira founded Hay Stacks n’ Jazz, a quarterly event that brings together young art wizards to showcase their work.    “There are so many young creatives in Kenya who are trying to find a footing on the art scene. Some of these creatives cannot access major concerts, art fairs and exhibitions because of the cut-throat competition. Hay Stacks n’ Jazz gives them a platform to demonstrate their work,” he says. The idea behind the event, Wachira explains, was to accommodate the current generation of artists and art enthusiasts who are more laid-back. “I envisioned a less formal setting for art exhibitions. The choice of an outdoor exhibition, under trees and out in the open with hay for seats was to lend the event an informal atmosphere that is fun for my target group,” he explains. STUDENTS FLOCK EVENTS Hay Stacks n’ Jazz is open to performers of all genres of art. “We allow painters, junk artists, violinists, poets, musicians and even cuisine specialists to participate in our events. The idea is to show how all these forms of art connect,” Wachira says. “My long-term dream is to set up an art school that will accommodate all forms of art,” he adds. At Hay Stacks n’ Jazz events, Wachira says, participants are not charged to exhibit their work. “I want to encourage many young artists to come forward and showcase their artwork as a viable way of making money. I also seek to promote the culture of attending events among young people in Kenya. Our recent exhibition at King’s College in Ruaraka saw more than 100 creatives exhibit and sell their pieces of art.”  The majority of visitors at the events are students, who pay a Sh200 entry fee.“We also charge Sh10,000 to vendors of refreshments and food. This platform promotes young entrepreneurs who make huge sales during our events,” he adds. This initiative, Wachira says, aims to create a strong network of young artists in Kenya, and to increase their bargaining power on the local art scene. “During our events, we hold an artists’ sort of buffet where the participating artists discuss topics such as how to market artwork,” he says.  AFFORDABLE ART The artists also seek solutions to the challenges they face, he adds. “The event is an assembly of creators of art and people who appreciate artwork. Those who attend our events have an opportunity to buy various items directly from the artists at very friendly prices,” he says.  Wachira believes that artworks should not gather dust in stores and studios for lack of buyers. “Beyond the fulfilment of expressing their world through art, artists should be able to pay their bills through their hobby,” he says. Artworks, however, need not be expensive, he emphasises. “I encourage artists to create simple art selling for as little as Sh1,000, which is affordable to small buyers, including students. That way, an artist can sell more pieces and make more money.” Wachira reinvests half of the proceeds generated from his events into the project as he seeks to publicise it even more among art lovers in Kenya. “I get an average of Sh75,000 from every edition of the event. The amount is worth the hassle of ensuring a successful event. I pay my bills and still have money left over for miscellaneous expenses,” he says. Currently, Wachira works with eight fellow art students from Kenyatta University as they seek to refine their skills in their art. He also teaches art at King’s College.  “My specialisation is drawing and painting. Instead of paying for my services, the institution allows me to use their grounds in Ruaraka for the events. It’s a win-win partnership,” says Wachira.  “I invite artists who have made a name for themselves in the industry to inspire the young artists. It’s usually a very productive engagement,” he says, adding that the project has also taught him the art of business negotiation.  
 