Kenya’s Ngugi Waweru took an early lead when he claimed a first heat victory in the MX1 category as the East Africa Motorcross Championships got under way at the Jamhuri Park circuit in Nairobi Saturday. Waweru collected 20 points for the lead ahead of Uganda’s Asaf Natan with 17 points as former regional and national champion Shivam Vinayak came in third with 15 points. Olivier Van Pee from Uganda is placed fourth with 13 points heading into the second and third heats today, followed by Kenyans Walter Kuria on 11 and Tutu Maina 10 points in the contest that doubles up as the Kenya National Motocross fìnal leg. Waweru, who has already won the National title in MX2, scaled to MX1 category for the regional championship where he finished second behind Ugandan Maxime Van Pee in the first leg in Entebbe in April. Maxime failed to make it after undergoing a leg surgery, leaving the contest open for Waweru and the rest. Maina and Vinayak, the latter who was a late entry yesterday, have come out of retirement to bolster Kenya’s chances of reclaiming the regional title they lost to Uganda last year.  “I am now left as favourite with Maxime out but that doesn’t put me under pressure. We still have a long way to go but I am glad Vinayak and Tutu are back to push for our regional quest,” said Waweru, who is determined to clinch the regional individual crown. “I missed the morning practice session and a nozzle came off my bike but I am glad it ended well,” said Waweru.  Kenyan riders dominated to take early lead in the MX 2 class but it’s the Ugandans who reigned supreme in MX 125, MX 85, MX 65 and MX 50 classes respectively. A breathtaking battle is building up in the MX 125 where Uganda’s Aviv Orland took an early lead with the first leg’s winner in Entebbe with Ethan Nyachae from Kenya lying second with 17 points.  Kenyans Kigen Kiplagat, John Schrier and Mwai Githinji followed in that order during the first heat.  “I fell at a corner while leading in the third round and that cost me the first heat victory,” said Nyachae. “However, there will be no room for mistakes with the route proving tough and rough than before.” 
 