The par-70 Nyanza Golf Club course in Kisumu City is all set to host the 2017 Sunset Golfing Society grand finale Friday. This year’s event has attracted a field of 114 players despite the fact that it is being held on a week day as opposed to the usual weekends. Club captain Sam Deya Thursday said the timing was a special request from the Sunset officials, some of whom will be having other engagements in the weekend. “This (the timing of the tournament) has obviously affected a number of our club members who are not able to play on week days but there are still post entries for those who can manage to come,’’ said Deya who however said he was happy with the turn out. “I must thank Sunset for mobilising a big number of golfers from different parts of the country. I am sure with the great support from the various sponsors, the Sunset grand finale will definitely live up to expectations,’’ Deya added. He also said although the course has been very dry lately, the greenkeeper has made a lot of effort to make sure it is playable.  This year’s grand finale is being sponsored by Stanbic Bank, courtesy of former Mombasa Golf Club captain Sylvester Odhiambo, himself being among the players expected to battle it out. Leading the Sunset members will be the current chairman Abel Munda, past Sunset and Royal chairman Barth Ragalo, another past Royal chairman Odongo Mark Okeyo, Victor Kidiwa, Ben Handa and Maurice Monni all from Royal. There is also the Sunset captain Hesbon Odumbe, Muthaiga’s Maurice Kanjejo, long-hitting Jack Okuku of Royal Nairobi Club, and Nakuru’s Major General George Owinoh among many others.  Also drawn are two professionals Elisha Kasuku and Nyanza-based pro David Odhiambo. Those going for the prize category reserved for guests of the sponsors and Sunset will include Paul Ichangi, Maurice Njue, Joseah Kogo, and Mugambi Murwithania all from Royal Nairobi Golf Club. Teeing off for those drawn in the morning, will start at 6.40am and 11am for the afternoon draw. Besides the fabulous prizes being offered, there will be the usual entertainment which include music and dinner drinks in the evening.  “The event comes around a few days before Christmas and Sunset has made sure that those travelling to Kisumu ushers in Christmas in a very special way,’’ said Deya who will led the home based Sunset and club members. 
  
The tournament is expected to end Friday. 