Christmas is not always a happy time for everyone.  Merry-making during this season is a far-fetched dream for spouses who are separated, newly divorced or in the middle of a divorce. “The holidays turn sour as the grieving over the broken marriage is compounded by the realisation that things such as family traditions will never be the same,” says Susan Gacheru, a family therapist based in Nakuru.  Nonetheless, there are steps that you can take to ensure that you have a fulfilling and thrilling Christmas this season while in the middle of a broken marriage. YOUR EX AND THE CHILDREN Although you may not be newly separated or divorced, this could be the first Christmas you spend away from your ex-husband.  In all your undertakings, you must bear in mind that spreading the Christmas cheer does not mean playing buddies with your ex-spouse.  “Treat your ex-spouse the same way you would treat a business associate. This is especially if you’re bound to interact over your parenting duties during the festivities. You don’t vent or call your business associate late on Saturday night, do you?” poses Robert Emery, a psychologist and the author of The Truth About Children and Divorce.  “Your interactions should be formal, structured, relatively uninvolved, governed by clear rules of behaviour, polite but not overly friendly.”  If you have been co-parenting and your children are scheduled to be with your ex-husband during Christmas, do not let your hurt rub off on them.  “Encourage them to embrace the spirit of Christmas and have a wonderful and enjoyable season with their parent even if you can’t stand the prospect of being alone,” says Emery.  CHRISTMAS TRADITIONS If you have just been separated from your spouse, you may consider skipping the traditional celebrations.  “Christmas is bound to elicit intense moments of episodic loneliness that will cause you to feel lonely, abandoned, or wrong when doing things you previously did with your spouse. Don’t tough it out but avoid these kinds of situations,” says Wendy Paris, the author of How to Part Well.  Nonetheless, you should have a plan that will guide you to a lovely festival season. For example, before the big day, lay out plans on where you will be, who you will be with, what you will do, and what you will not do.  “One of the easiest people you can be with around this time is your family and close friends. They understand your current predicament and will be more cautious on which of your emotional buttons to touch,” says Ms Gacheru. She adds that you must not lay your ex-husband’s dirty linen in front of your children.   “The separation is not any easier to bear for them either. Bad-mouthing him will only aggravate their feeble emotional situation,” she says. GIFTING COMPETITION One of the most critical mistakes you can make is to materialise Christmas in a bid to either conceal your broken marriage from your children, or beat your ex-spouse at providing the most outlandish Christmas festival.  “Teach your children that there is more to Christmas than being spendthrift. For example, you can launch a new tradition of helping and, or visiting the less fortunate in your community,” says Ms Gacheru. In the same breathe, do not overspend.  
  
Ending a relationship either through a break-up, a divorce or sacking is never a pleasant experience.