President Uhuru Kenyatta has asked the opposition to forward any ideas aimed at transforming the lives of Kenyans. He said his administration is open to any suggestions on development from both sides of the political divide but ruled out any chances of engaging in political dialogue with the National Super Alliance (Nasa). The President, who was in the company of his deputy William Ruto, spoke at City Hall in Nairobi, when he launched the county’s new data centre on Monday. The centre is a national government and Nairobi County project. He said Kenyans were tired of politics and what they needed was service delivery. “If our competitors, the opposition, have any good ideas that can assist in making the lives of Kenyans better, they are welcome. We can talk,” said the President, adding that no one has a monopoly of ideas. “Kenya belongs to all of us. We need to work together regardless of our political affiliations — whether Nasa or Jubilee. Elections are over and we need to come together and work jointly for the people,” said President Kenyatta at the function that was also attended by Governor Mike Sonko and his deputy Polycarp Igathe. DIALOGUE Mr Kenyatta ruled out any possibility of political dialogue with the opposition, saying: “We cannot dialogue to continue politicking.” He added that his administration was already working, even at the time he was campaigning for his re-election in the repeat presidential election. “In the last few months, even when we were politicking, we were already working. Politics alone cannot transform anything.” READ: Uhuru rules out dialogue with Nasa  The Head of State announced that the national government would in January next year roll out a programme for Nairobi residents to be issued with title deeds so that they can own land in the  city. “In January, we will deliver the first 50,000 title deeds in Nairobi,” he said. IMPROVE LIVES The President said the government intends to improve lives in Nairobi, especially in Eastlands and slums within the city. “We will improve the condition of the roads, sewerage, water system and street lighting. We want those people to feel that they are part of Nairobi. We want them to own Nairobi,” said Mr Kenyatta. During the recent elections, constituencies in Eastlands and slums within the city were viewed as Nasa strongholds. The President said he intends to explore similar partnerships with the other 46 counties. RIGHT TEAM “There is no point in sitting at a Council of Governors meeting without any implementable agenda. But through collaborations, we can deliver to the people of Nairobi and the people of Kenya,” he added. At the same time, Mr Ruto said: “Nairobi has the largest population of Kenyans and largest population of voters. It has the highest GDP in Kenya and is the capital city. The transformation of Kenya must begin with the transformation of Nairobi.” The DP said Jubilee backed Mr Sonko for the Nairobi governorship because it believed he and his running mate could be useful in transforming Nairobi. “What we have seen today attests that we have the right team to change Nairobi,” he said. 
  
US, UK and German envoys have been pushing for talks between Nasa and Jubilee. 