Some Kenyans are already laying into the government directive to have three million secondary school students in the NHIF programme from January 2018. The order was given to the Cabinet Secretary of Education Fred Matiang'i and the Health ministry on Wednesday. PRIORITY But some Kenyans said President Uhuru Kenyatta’s move was a scandal in waiting as he was concentrating on minors who are already covered by their parents. Most Kenyans who took the social media could not hide their disappointment on the move. “There are thousands of Kenyans who cannot afford to pay the Sh500 monthly fee to NHIF hence missing out on healthcare. Why are they not being given priority because when you cover a parent most definitely the children are taken care of,” said Mr Richard Otieno, a concerned Kisumu resident. Mr Otieno has to part with his little money whenever any of his five children is sick. EXPENSIVE Being a casual labourer, he cannot afford to pay the monthly Sh500 that is required by National Hospital Insurance Fund for his family to be insured. “I don’t know why they had to add the amount to Sh500. Before I could easily pay Sh160 for my five children and their mother but now will I go for food or save to pay for the cover?” he asked. Mr Otieno is appealing to the fund to reduce the amount as he is overwhelmed with hospital's bills. “In June, my wife was detained in hospital for one month because I could not settle the bill and that happens every time any member of my family is unwell,” he said He said at times he uses traditional medicines when he does not have money for hospital fees. PREMIUM With this hustle and desperation, many Kenyans are using pseudo names in many hospitals when they are admitting their loved ones as a way of avoiding paying the bills. “I have done this several times more so when I don’t have the money to pay for their medication. Why can’t the government consider reducing the amount for people like us rather than concentrating on our children who are our beneficiaries?” said Mr Otieno. Ken Mwaura said the government’s move was a bad decision. He added that if the NHIF covered three million parents, it would include their spouses and four children at the same premium. Carnegie Dale Jidzi had this to say: “Who will pay for all these freebies? Are we making Kenyans lazy and irresponsible by having too many free things? Are we going to create more poor people through excess taxation to maintain these freebies? I think the time has come for leaders to consult widely even if through public participation before making critical decisions that concern citizens.” FUNDS Kenn Eddy Omondi said: “NHIF cards for minors? Who will be contributing to the fund? That's a very wrong directive. Minors who are under the age of 18 are covered by their parents or guardians.... Aaaaaaai how?” Dennis Kyallo said the directive is thoughtless and could backfire. “Only dictators issue roadside directives for populism,” he added. Wilfred Mwangi said that Kenyans have NHIF cards but public hospitals do not have sufficient equipment and medicine. “Wrong move, Mr President,” he added. SUPPORT But other Kenyans supported the idea of insuring all students. They said it was a great initiative that would ensure even those from poor families are insured. Duncan Prezzay Okombo said: “That's great news!!! Now he should put down measures to ensure that no money is lost. Meanwhile, Mr Kenyatta has really made my Christmas.” Florence Nyambura Waichigo: “To the critiques...how many Kenyans pay NHIF? It’s not compulsory remember and so covering all the students is a wise move....very.” Kim Kinoti said the usual critics are complaining that parents cover their children, yet many Kenyans cannot afford NHIF. “Are all parents enrolled in NHIF? Are all students below 18 years?” he questioned. 
 