This Christmas, let’s reflect on the second, greatest commandment of love, ‘Love your neighbour as you love yourself’, which is drawn from the Bible in Mark 12:30-31. This is a call to believers to love selflessly, as they love themselves, that for you to be able to love your neighbour, you have to love yourself first. Yes, you cannot give love if your heart is cold and empty. You can only empower that other person if you are empowered. Your heart has to be full of love for you to extend the same. Loving others starts with loving ‘You’. TRAVELYou have spent a good part of the year worried of your family’s safety, your career, health, finances, and so forth. This Christmas is the perfect time to slow down on life, at least for a few days, and explore that inner person called ‘You’. It is the opportune time to indulge in what makes you happy. Travel out of town, get to the wilderness, the beaches and the countryside. While at it, have fun. The most priceless gift you can give yourself is the experience that travelling and exploring new places gives. If you cannot afford to travel, worry not. Get that most amazing book title that you have been admiring at the bookstore and read. EDIFY Go to the movie shop and grab your favourite series, something that will keep you glued to your screen. A great movie, or a true page-turner will see your mind ‘travel and experience’ new places and adventures while in the comfort of your living room, in the woods or by the fireplace. A good travel, a great movie and a good read will enrich your body, soul and mind. This Christmas, be your esteemed guest. Prepare your favourite meal and use that fine dinner-set that you have been preserving for your guests. Put on your favourite clothing and perfume, then surround yourself with the people who make you happy. HAPPINESSForget about the power bills, your lecturers, the farms, that landlord who will be at your door in a few days, and January 2018 school fees. Indulge. You have struggled to save an entire year even when the economy has been ‘beaten’ by a prolonged electioneering period. For once, give yourself the peace of mind by ‘forgetting’ about all your problems. Life is fast, short and you only live once. In the same manner, forget about all those people who have wronged you. Forget about the mistakes that you have made this year. May be it was a not well-thought of investment plan you put your money into, perhaps dating Jane, Tim or Harry wasn’t the good deal for you. POSITIVITYForget about all of these, and much more this Christmas. Try not to carry the baggage, instead shake it off your shoulders and do yourself some goodness by focusing on how to move on from your perceived failures. Rather, let your mind focus on something positive. Yes, it is time to have a ‘me-time’ to reflect on your work, family, and personal life. While at this, take a piece of paper and pen. In addition to writing, draw your next big plan. Make it as interesting as possible. List all your accomplishments, all that you intend to achieve and how you intend to actualise this. AMBITION Yes, dare to dream on paper and for once visualise you as having accomplished all that. See yourself as a successful man or woman and feel how good it would be after all the work that you will have put in. Then desire to achieve that in shorter tasks spread over a time period. Do a self-inventory and take stock of what you need to improve on for that happier you and then prioritise it by next Christmas. This could be going back to school, learning a new skill or a foreign language and identifying the right people to align with for leverage. SELF-IMPROVEMENTLook at the mirror and at the person that you see. A perfect reflection of you. That is the person that you ought to love more this Christmas. Christmas has long been hyped as the season of ‘giving’. But have you ever taken the time to reflect on what you have really invested in that inner person called You? So, before you love others, love yourself first. You can only love others if your heart is full of love. Happy holidays, and have a merry Christmas! Millicent Mwololo writes for the Daily Nation and is also a media and communications consultant. mmwolo@ke.nationmedia.com  