Even as the government denies apprehending and locking up National Super Alliance (Nasa) Chief Strategist David Ndii, details of his arrest have started to emerge. His wife Mwende, who was staying with him at Leopard Beach Hotel in Diani, Kwale, on Monday told the Nation that officers pounced on Dr Ndii outside the hotel. 7 OFFICERS She said the arrest on Sunday evening was carried out by seven officers who said they were from Flying Squad. Reports indicate detectives from the Special Crime Prevention Unit were also involved in the operation shrouded in mystery. Mrs Ndii said the officers said they were taking her husband to Diani Police Station but she did not find him when she went there 10 minutes later. After the arrest, the police proceeded to the hotel room where the couple was staying for a search, she said. The detectives were looking for Dr Ndii’s laptop with the aim of extracting information related to Nasa plans and programmes. The self-declared 'public intellectual' was recently appointed to lead Nasa leader Raila Odinga's push for fresh elections through People's Assembly. Mrs Ndii said they were in the South Coast to attend a wedding of their relative. CONFIRMED The whereabouts of Dr Ndii remained unknown on Monday morning even as police sources confirmed his arrest. A police source, who spoke to the Nation on condition of anonymity because he is not authorised to give press statements, confirmed the arrest. “He was arrested by our team but we do not know his whereabouts as it has been kept a secret,” he said on Monday. The revelation came even as multiple sources, including Nasa leaders, indicated that Dr Ndii has been moved to the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) in Nairobi for questioning. "David Ndii currently being questioned at DCI HQ in Nairobi over incitement allegations. Apparently he was driven to Nairobi overnight. He is at Serious Crimes Unit offices," Raila Odinga's Spokesman Dennis Onyango said. Coast police chiefs, however, denied arresting the economist. DENIALS Coast region police commandant Larry Kieng said they were not aware of his arrest. “We do not have such a person in our custody,” said Mr Kieng. The confusion was deepened by the management Leopard Beach Hotel, who also denied having a guest by his name. But a source at the hotel revealed to the Nation that Dr Ndii was at the hotel before his arrest Sunday evening.  Reports by Mohamed Ahmed, Fadhili Fredrick and Tim Wanyonyi.   Detectives used a photograph to identify the economist after goofing at Leisure Lodge in Diani.