Nothing better illustrates the futility of the work done by the Salaries and Remuneration Commission in the past six years than the fact that on the same day that its chairperson, Mrs Sarah Serem, described her frustration at failing to control the bloated wage bill, a plan by legislators to extort even more money from the taxpayer was exposed. All along, Mrs Serem’s task was a mission impossible, but she worked doggedly to try and tame the wage bill with little success.  This is because, despite the SRC’s clear mandate, there does not appear to have been much goodwill by the various sectors that would be affected, chief among them being legislators who have always harboured a curious sense of entitlement to the country’s meagre resources. In many ways, the SRC, personified by Mrs Serem, has always been a darling of the struggling masses and the middle class who can hardly make ends meet.  TRADE UNIONS But she has often been demonised by trade unionists who believe the commission is over-stepping its mandate by opposing their demands for ridiculous pay increments.  In fact, these folks have always viewed the SRC as a government tool to delegitimise workers’ constitutional right of fair remuneration. Arguments that the country simply cannot raise the revenue to award 300 per cent pay increments without raising taxes monumentally thus making the ordinary folks suffer even more have rarely dented their resolve, especially when their leaders are intent on striking first and then negotiating for better deals after everybody has suffered. Very few people have any quarrel with doctors, nurses, teachers and lecturers earning more. Everybody wants to make a better living and nobody hates money.  PAY INCREMENTS The problem comes when nobody wants to back down during negotiations for reasonable pay increments. Matters become worse when professionals compare what they earn with what legislators award themselves. Take, for instance, the plan to change parliamentary Standing Orders to allow all the 349 legislators to be appointed to at least two House committees by increasing the numbers in those committees.  Although some MPs were quick to claim they are not motivated by greed, they did not say why those numbers should increase in the first place.  Is it that they have belatedly discovered their workload is getting heavier, or is something else afoot? Things become murkier when there is a bipartisan agreement on that score. When House Majority and Minority leaders agree on at least one thing in these tense times, then the taxpayer is definitely being shafted. Clearly, somebody has devised a method to scuttle the pay-cuts for legislators announced by the SRC last year. LEGISLATORS What is the issue here? If our legislators will not set a good example, there is no reason why others, especially professionals, should be content with what they earn.  After all, most are highly educated, they work long hours while MPs work only three days a week, and in the end, they do more for the majority poor than the legislators do. At the risk of sounding like a heckler, why should doctors and lecturers, for instance, agree to starvation wages? The other issue is the wage burden itself. It is simply unsustainable. If, as has been reported, the government is spending Sh627 billion a year on the salaries and perks of civil servants and State officers, which is approximately 50 per cent of the country’s total revenue (from your taxes and mine), then the whole thing makes no sense considering that there are only 700,000 officers in that cadre.  Clearly, something has to give. It is a complex issue viewed against the level of joblessness in the country which is at 39 per cent. POLITICAL SUPPORT That is why bodies like the Salaries and Remuneration Commission should be given leeway to do their job and all the political support they need.  But the prospects look bleak when the legislative arm of government works at cross-purposes with the executive on this issue.  A quote from Mrs Serem during an interview with a local publication will illustrate the dilemma: “We don’t appreciate that the population is growing, the resources are getting fewer, and yet we are demanding more.”                                             * * * * The decision by the Council of Governors to form a bipartisan committee that will seek ways of reconciling this country is not only brilliant but inspired. Kenya must remain one indivisible and viable country. We owe it to future generations.    andrewngwiri@gmail.com 
 