Kenya Sevens launch their quest for the Cape Town Sevens title against France at 1.27pm Saturday at the Cape Town Stadium. They will then take on Russia at 4.48pm, before wrapping up their Pool "A" run against World Rugby Sevens Series defending champions South Africa, who are fresh from defending their Dubai Sevens title last Saturday, at 8.47pm. Shujaa faced France and Russia last at Paris Sevens last season, while Blitzbokke at Dubai Sevens loosing in all the outings. Shujaa went down 24-14 to France at the pool stage and 15-7 to Russia for the 13th place final.  They will renew their continental rivalry with South Africa, who beat them 48-5 at the pool stage in Dubai, where they eventually finished seventh after losing to Australia 19-12 in the semi-final for the fifth place.  Shujaa had narrowly lost to New Zealand 14-12 in the Cup quarters. That earned them 10 points, which was a considerable a good start as compared to last season.  They will not only be eying to improve in Cape Town, but also surpass their last year's show at the event, where they reached the Cup quarters, before ending sixth after losing to Fiji 33-21 in the final for fifth place. Blitzbokke defeated New Zealand 24-12 to retain their Dubai Sevens crown on Saturday. France finished ninth while Russia ended in last place. Shujaa coach Innocent Simiyu hopes for consistency and revenge as they take the battle to their rivals in the second leg of the World Rugby Sevens Series. “It was a good start in Dubai, but our key focus in Cape Town is to have the boys consistently perform to their full potential and better last year’s cup quarterfinal performance.” Team manager Erick Ogweno reckoned that Dubai already set a benchmark in terms of performance expectations.  “We now need to get it well in our mental strength and the ability to kill off the game and to hold onto a win,” said Ogweno, while referring to their close losses to New Zealand and Australia in Dubai. Three players have joined Shujaa in Cape Town replacing injured scrum-half Collins Injera and winger Dennis Ombachi. They are props Oscar Ouma and Arthur Owira, and winger Sam Muregi. “Ouma brings leadership, experience and raw power to our game which will be very vital for a good start in Cape Town. Muregi has been very impressive in training. He is a good finisher and strong ball carrier,” said Ogweno. ”Owira has had a very good Sevens season with his club KCB and his work-rate on the pitch will help us a lot at the breakdown.” With no injuries, Blitzbokhe coach Neil Powell has only made once change, bringing in Siviwe Soyizwapi to replace Marco Labuschagne. Defending Cape Town champions England‚ who beat SA 19-17 in last year’s final‚ were third in Dubai. The Britons will contest Pool “C” against Scotland, Argentina and invitational team Uganda. New Zealand will play Australia, Spain and USA in Pool “B”, but will be without Joe Ravouvou for the first three matches after being cited for a high tackle in the Dubai final.  Rio 2016 gold medallists and 2015-16 series champions Fiji play Samoa, Canada and Wales in Pool “D.”  FIXTURES Kenya v France (1.27pm) Kenya v Russia (4.48pm Kenya v South Africa (8.47pm) 
 