National Super Alliance (Nasa) strategist David Ndii has been released on a Sh10,000 police bond. Dr Ndii's release came on Monday evening after the Director of Public Prosecutions Keriako Tobiko ordered the Directorate of Criminal Investigations to release him on police bond. Mr Tobiko asked the police to complete their investigations, and forward the inquiry file to him ‘for appropriate instructions’. After the order, the police drove Dr Ndii out of the Milimani Law Court to the Muthaiga Police Station then to the DCI where he was released. Dr Ndii was arrested by seven police officers from the Flying Squad and the Special Crimes Prevention Unit, at the Coast on Sunday evening.  He was then taken to Diani Police Station and later driven to Nairobi. NINE HOURS Dr Ndii was interrogated at the DCI for close to nine hours after they arrived. During the interrogations police officers barred Nasa supporters and lawyers from accessing the DCI premises. At 9am, Lawyers James Orengo (Siaya Senator), Otiende Amollo (Rarieda MP) Edwin Sifuna and Norman Magaya (NASA CEO) arrived at the headquarters to attend to Mr Ndii, but they were barred from entering.   The police officer manning the gate said that he had received instructions not to let the lawyers in. He did not however reveal whose instructions he was following. READ: How police cornered David Ndii - VIDEO READ: David Ndii's wife's message to Uhuru Kenyatta - VIDEO    Later however, Mr Orengo and Mr Sifuna were allowed to see Dr Ndii. Mr Amollo said the police had restricted the number of lawyers that would be allowed in to see Dr Ndii. “Mr Orengo and Mr Sifuna are there with him and they have told me that the police are planning to present Dr Ndii at the Milimani Law Courts at 2pm,” Mr Amollo said. PRIVACY He alleged that Dr Ndii, who was arrested in Kwale on Sunday night and taken to Nairobi overnight, had been harassed. “It is questionable, why the police had to follow him all the way to Mombasa to arrest him when he was spending time with his family. The crime he was arrested for, was allegedly committed months ago,” Mr Amollo said. He accused police of intimidating supporters of the National Super Alliance, Nasa, saying that the police had intruded on the family’s privacy. Dr Ndii was taken to the Milimani Law Courts at 2.30pm but was not charged. He was kept at the basement cells till 5.30 when he was taken again to the DCI. READ: Raila: David Ndii was arrested to intimidate Nasa - VIDEO    Nasa leader Raila Odinga has termed the arrest of the coalition’s strategist, Dr David Ndii, a wider scheme by the government to intimidate Kenyans fighting for electoral justice. ARREST Mr Ndii’s wife, Mwende Gatabaki told the media that after the arrest, police officers said they had taken him the Diani police station but when she went to the station she did not find him there. “They even detained me at some point when I refused to leave without my husband until Winnie Odinga intervened,” she said. Ms Odinga on her part claimed that police officers at the Diani Police Station yelled at them and kept pushing them from the station. LOCKED UP “When Mrs Ndii told them that she was looking for her husband, they kept telling us that we had no idea what they do to women like us in the cells,” Ms Odinga said. She said when Mrs Ndii, her friend and herself refused to leave demanding that they be shown where the economist was, they were all locked up at the cells for two hours. “They said we created disturbance at the station,” Ms Odinga said, adding that they were released at 10pm. 
  
Mr Tobiko has asked the police to forward the inquiry file to him upon completing their investigations.