The ethics and anti-corruption watchdog has summoned members of the Murang’a County Assembly over a recent attack on their clerk Chris Kinyanjui. The ward reps stormed Mr Kinyanjui’s office on November 27 as they pushed for fatter allowances and interest-free loans. STATEMENTS According to a letter seen by the Nation, the MCAs are required to appear at the commission’s headquarters in the capital Nairobi between December 11 and December 19. “The commission has reason to believe that you are in possession of information that can aid in the investigation and would like to interview and record your statement on the matter,” the letter, dated December 5 and signed by Mr Abdi Mohamud, reads in part. Assembly Speaker Nduati Kariuki on Friday confirmed that the reps had been summoned, saying his office would cooperate with the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) officers. “Murang’a County is known for always doing things in regard to the law. If it’s indeed true that the members wanted to evict the clerk, it is not only wrong and unethical but it is also criminal. Let the law take its due course,” he said. He said he had also initiated investigations into the incident that happened when he was out of the country. 'GREED' Mr Nduati added that he had also invited the Auditor-General to investigate allegations made by MCAs over mismanagement of funds in the clerk’s office. “I have today invited the MCAs who have denied storming the clerk’s office. They have, however, raised concerns that the uniforms they used during the inter-counties games were of low quality,” Mr Nduati said in his office. He said he had invited the clerk to give his version of the story. The action by the MCAs to storm the clerk’s office has been condemned by the residents and the area Governor Mwangi wa Iria, who said the reps had proved to be greedy. “Its unfortunate that the newly elected MCAs have chosen to put their stomachs first instead of coming up with ideas to take development to their electorate,” Mr Iria said on Monday.  