The University of Nairobi is the pioneer institution of higher education in eastern Africa. It has made progress in innovation while closely working with Chinese partners. The Confucius Institute is part of China’s preoccupation with education. We believe education is fundamental to the pursuit of national rejuvenation. Educational modernisation was addressed in the 19th National Congress of the Communist Party of China last month. The congress marked a new era for China’s economic and social development. It launched the task of developing China into a modernised socialist country by the middle of this century, and laid out a plan to promote the cause of socialism with Chinese characteristics. The forum also established the historic position of Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism. INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS The Xi Jinping Thought sets forth fundamental polices for upholding and developing socialism with Chinese characteristics in the new era, serving as the guiding principal to unite and lead the Communist Party and Chinese to achieve new goals. Aiming to foster new type of international relations and common development and build a community with a shared future, the Congress was important for China because the era offers opportunities to the world. China’s governance and development experience offers a new option for developing countries that may want to speed up their socio-economic progress. On Tuesday, President Uhuru Kenyatta was sworn into office for his second term. We were impressed by Mr Kenyatta’s vision and believe that Kenya will make great progress. Over the years, the cooperation between China and Kenya has been significantly deepened. PARTNERSHIP The youth of our two countries should work more closely to push forward the China-Kenya Comprehensive Strategic Cooperative Partnership to a new height. As President Xi Jinping once said:  “A nation will prosper only when its young people thrive. A country will be full of hope and have a great tomorrow only when its young generation has ideas, ability and a strong sense of responsibility.” When I visit schools and universities in Kenya, I see young people working hard for a better future. Academic study and research require painstaking efforts and clear targets. In this regard, I believe Vision 2030 has a blueprint for industrialisation in Kenya. To achieve the Vision 2030 objectives, there is need to prioritise engineering and technology. The Chinese embassy will continue to offer support to educational institutions in Kenya and help young people pursue their dreams. Liu Xianfa is the Chinese ambassador to Kenya. He was gave the speech when awarding scholarships to students at UoN on Friday.  