What do you admire most about Kenya’s telecommunications landscape?I admire the energy, efforts and huge investments the government and other players have invested to see a speedy and continuous growth of the industry. This enabling environment has made it possible for all players to conduct business and advance their network This has created a very competitive market that has spurred Kenya’s economic growth. It’s exciting to see the region approach universal Internet access.  What would you say about the performance of our telecom industry?Mid this year, content delivery network Akamai ranked Kenya’s Internet connection the fastest in Africa and the 14th fastest globally. This testifies to the strength of our industry.  Does Telecom Kenya have specific products designed for budding entrepreneurs? We appreciate the enormous value of start-up businesses, and it is in this spirit that we are supporting a start-up incubation hub in Kenya called the Nairobi Garage.  This hub hosts a 300 co-working space with high-speed retail Internet solution designed for smaller businesses and homes and access to the Cloud platform. With this support, young entrepreneurs can develop solutions and applications suitable for their type of business, locally and regionally.  Do you think the government is giving young tech innovators adequate support?Yes. In 2015, the Ministry of ICT and the ICT Authority launched Enterprise Kenya, an initiative to support and build the technology entrepreneurship ecosystem in the country. The project supports the development of a sustainable talent pool and workforce in a bid to encourage innovation. The government has allowed international tech companies like Andela to invest in the country and to train tech innovators. This is a great opportunity for local tech innovators to leverage for partnerships and funding.  The establishment of working spaces like iHub and the Nairobi Garage to support and nurture young tech innovators has been made possible through the creation of an enabling environment by the government and through regulation.   Liquid Telecom Kenya offers high-speed Internet services; of what significance is this to the youth?Internet access for all is vital for the country’s development and growth. It gives the youth access to a variety of online job opportunities.  The Internet also gives the youth access to resourceful entrepreneurial content on how to create successful businesses and, most importantly, links with institutions offering start-up funding or business incubation centres.  Some young people earn an income on the virtual scene by writing, transcribing and translating content for clients across the world. Eventually, the high-speed Internet will close the gap between the employed and the jobless through self-employment.  Do you have regrets in your 15 years at the senior level management in major companies?I have worked in countries in Africa, Asia and Europe, but I don’t have regrets relating to any of these engagements. It has been a continuous learning process for me. I have enjoyed equally the high and low points of the journey. I believe that you can grow more and learn faster in difficult situations than in softer experiences. This has made me gain the worthwhile experience I required to run Liquid Telecom in Kenya.  Why have the rates for calling and Internet subscription remained high despite the entry of more players in the market?The rates have reduced drastically with growing competition and declining demand in the past few years. But before Internet subscription rates can fall further, telecommunications operators must invest in more innovative technologies to bring Internet services to unserved areas.  The regulators should also provide incentives to operators to enable them to reach these areas. Local content providers must also develop content that is more appealing to drive demand for Internet services, and thus push prices lower.  What other interests do you have outside telecommunications? I play tennis and golf. I also read a lot about physics and philosophy.  What three things would you tell a telecommunications student reading this? Telecommunications is an ever-evolving field, new dynamics are constantly introduced so it keeps you on your toes, eliminating the chance of getting bored easily.  Secondly, you need to be keen to study and understand the various engineering concepts to enable you to develop solutions for the various challenges in the market today.  Lastly, new frontiers lie in the near future. The Internet of things (IoT) and drone technology are fast gaining root in Africa and the demand for connectivity is increasing. You must, therefore, align yourself to understanding these new trends to remain relevant.  Is there space for upcoming telecom businesses in the Kenyan industry that is virtually monopolised by a few major players?Yes. Kenya has a free but competitive market. Any new player needs a proper understanding of the market dynamics and a strategy to bring new services and solutions to meet customers’ needs in order to succeed. 
  
Airtel Kenya has appointed Adil El Youssefi as its new managing director