Kenya cracked their second win, beating regional rivals Uganda 29-14 to qualify for the main Cup quarterfinals at Dubai Sevens on Friday at the Sevens Stadium. Tries from Dennis Ombachi, who was stretched off from the filed with an injury, Eden Agero, Dan Sikuta, skipper Oscar Ayodi and Brian Tanga saw Shujaa uphold their unbeaten run against Uganda in the World Series. Solomon Okia and Philip Wokorach, who ply their professional trade in Kenya, scored for a Uganda a try each but all was in vain for the battling Ugandans even with Okia’s conversions. It was a good recovery from Shujaa, who had soaked in eight tries to slump to a 48-5 loss to defending champions South Africa in their second Pool “A” outing. However, what enabled Innocent “Namcos” Simiyu’s charges to sail through was their opening 29-15 victory against Canada. Ombachi weaved through the middle to score by got injured from a tackle to be taken off the field as Samuel Oliech converted. Shujaa fumbled with a restart ball to gift Okia with a try that Wokorach converted to level 7-7 for Uganda. Shujaa intensified their attacks to get a penalty inside Uganda’s 22 yards area but Agero and Sikuta would score a try each off penalties to stretch their lead to 19-7.  Another lapse in concentration from the Kenyans saw Wokorach sneak through to score as Uganda inched closer 14-19 at the break. Ayodi and Tanga would finish off for Kenya in the second half. Against Blitzebokke, who are also the World Rugby Series champions, its Jeffery Oluoch, who started the ball rolling for Shujaa to complete a good work out phases, with a try that Oliech failed to convert. Instead of building on the good start, what followed was a cycle of errors at the breakdown and kick-offs coupled with poor ball handling and tackling, as Shujaa easily lost possession to Blitzbokke, who sliced through to score at will. Seabelo Senatla scored a hat-trick of tries, with Cecil Afrika, Blanco Du Preez, Justin Geduld, Kwagga Smith and Rosko Specman managing a try each. Afrika and Du Preez converted two tries each. Collins Injera had inspired Kenya Sevens to a 29-15 win over Canada with a brace of tries in their opening Pool A match earlier. 
  
KCB are away to Kisii at Gusii Stadium while Kabras host Leos.