Vet Lab Sports Club was in a celebratory mood at the weekend as the management organised a party to honour its leading players in addition to the club’s Nairobi league victory. Outgoing club captain Rakesh Lakhani said the management had decided to organise the party to honour and pay tribute to what he described as the most “sterling performance” by Vet Lab’s top amateurs in various national assignments. Some of the club’s leading amateurs who were honoured included the pair of Robinson Owiti and Edwin Mudanyi, who emerged the overall winners of the Nairobi District Foursomes at Muthaiga in January. Individually, Edwin Mudanyi - who won the Kabete Open and Manchester Salver - emerged the overall winner of the 2017 Kenya Amateur Golf Championship (KAGC) series with a total of 500.8 points, and the Vet Lab won the KAGC Inter Club trophy. Another leading player from the club, Mike Kisia, won the Winston Churchill trophy, Mount Kenya Championship and the Coast Open (Barry Cup). “It was a rare achievement for some of our players and the Vet Lab and as the captain of the club for the year 2017, I did not find any other better way of thanking them than organising a party which has been supported by the entire club membership,” said Lakhani, who eventually handed the captainship to his vice Mark Karobia. Besides the Nairobi District Foursomes victory, Vet Lab’s team popularly known as the “Stallions’’, also finished third in the annual Tannahill Shield at Royal though the highlight of the club in the year 2017 was its historical victory in the Nairobi District League after 19 years of waiting.  “We are very excited after winning the league which started here at Vet Lab 35 years ago,” said Lakhani.  Vet Lab won the league with a total of 147.33 points following a decision taken by the Nairobi District captains meeting. But two clubs, Railway and Windsor, had a dispute on their matches. In trying to solve the dispute, the captains’ meeting voted 8 against 2 to take away the disputed points from both teams, a decision which saw Vet Lab emerge at the top of the league. It was agreed that the Kenya Golf Union (KGU) going forward takes the running of the league in order to have a natural points updating system. During the league matches, Vet Lab beat among other teams Limuru 15.30 against 6.70, Thika 18.46- 4.54, Golf Park 18.41, Railway 12.79, Windsor 18.12 and Karen 15-48 points. Thika came second overall on 143.49 points, and Railway third with 136.59. Sigona were fourth on 131.99 points. A total of 12 clubs participated in the league. The Vet Lab ladies team also won the popular Francombe Shield inter-club matchplay for the second year running and the RNGC Shield matchplay. The ladies will celebrate their achievements later.  
 