Education Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiangi has released the 2017 Form Four exam results. Here are the highlights of the report released on Wednesday at the Nairobi School: Overall, there is a decline in number of students who have qualified to join university, with girls performing better than boys. Number of grade As increases to 142 from 141 in 2016. A minuses reduce by more than half to 2,714 from 4,645in 2016. Karimi Naomi of Pangani Girls emerges top candidate with a mean of 87.011; Sharon Chepchumba from Moi Girls takes position 2 as Kamau Brian Maina from Alliance High School settles for the third position. Pangani Girls, Nairobi, is the most improved school as Alliance Girls and Kenya High shine. Knec withholds results for 10 schools pending investigations; candidates to know their fate on January 18.  15 counties had more female than male candidates. They are: Taveta, Nyandarua, Nyeri, Kirinyaga, Murang’a, Kiambu, Machakos, Kitui, Meru, Makueni, Tharaka Nithi, Laikipia, Elgeyo Marakwet, Vihiga and Kisumu counties. Five candidates who were caught engaging in examination malpractices were disqualified before the KCSE examination season was over.  Earlier, Dr Matiang’i and his team briefed President Kenyatta on  the results. President Kenyatta directed Dr Matiang’i and Kenya National Examination Council (Knec) Chairman George Magoha to institutionalise education reforms so that the gains made in the last few years are maintained. Mr Kenyatta also asked the Teachers Service Commission to reward principals, schools and subject teachers who excelled to encourage high performance. But similarly, President Kenyatta said teachers caught cheating should be punished severely to serve as an example to others. He also directed Dr Matiangi to work with Attorney-General Githu Muigai to make presentations to Director of Public Prosecutions Keriako Tobiko so that cases of cheating involving more than 700 teachers countrywide are expedited. Individual candidate results can also be accessed by sending a candidate’s index number through Short Message Service (SMS) to 22252.    
  
Last year, 790,680 joined secondary schools across the country.