Timothy Otieno aka Timmy Tdat was once a tout and a mitumba trader before he became a musician.  Today, he is renowned for his hit songs Welle welle and Will be OK, featuring Kenyan songstress Dela. Nation.co.ke caught up with him in a recent interview: Why have you dismissed rumours that you and Dela are a couple despite the chemistry seen in Will be OK?  Hehehe! Come on guys’ cant you let a nigga be? We are the best of friends and have tremendous respect for each other. This naturally brings out the chemistry you talking about. I wonder why people didn’t feel the same vibe when she did a song with Gilad? There was more of chemistry in that song compared to ours.  What does the phrase ‘Kasabun’ in most of your songs and social posts mean?This is where I grew up. Life is tough there. Girls get pregnant while still in school and boys become thugs to make a living. I have to represent Kasabun in a more positive light because that’s where I call home.  Word has it that you used to be in seminary school, how true is that? If so, why did you drop out?It's true. I was raised in a staunch Catholic family. From day one my late father wanted me to be a priest. As a young boy he would make sure I attended all the three masses at our church and take notes on how they were conducted. I served as an altar boy for as long as I can remember but my passion wasn’t in it. Still, I believe that if my dad was here with me today, he would still be proud of the man I have become.     You often perform shirtless in your videos. Do you do that to impress the ladies? I wouldn’t mind the attention from the ladies but truth be told, it’s economical and convenient. I don’t have to carry a whole briefcase of clothes for the video shoots.  Do you still party until dawn?Not any more. I prefer to be indoors relaxing and exercising. After the accident with my ex-girlfried Kush Tracey, I learnt from it and I take life more seriously now. 
  
Sultry songstress Amani was the second female artiste in Kenya after Wahu to win an MTV Africa Music Award (MAMA), back in 2009. 