Teresia Ndoti Wambua famously known as Kush Tracey, brings versatility with hard hitting lyrics and a good command of Kenyan slang, ‘Sheng’. This has distinguished her music from other artistes and at 23 years, she is already making waves with hits such as ‘Ndulu’, ‘Kamote’, ‘Playboy’, ‘Mawe’ among others. Nation.co.ke recently caught up with her and this is what she had to say: What does your stage name mean?It's a nickname I got from my parents when I was very young. I had a yellow baby cloth inscribed with the words ‘Kush Kush’ and liked it so much that when my mother called me by my real name I wouldn’t respond. Are you still pursuing your university studies in Engineering?No, I deferred because it really requires a lot of concentration so I want to focus on building my brand first then I will go back to school. This year Kenyan artistes have released very few songs. For example, you only released two tracks: ‘Aye’ and ‘Kelebe’. Why is that so?I think the problem was the election period that dragged on for so long making most of us withhold our projects. But now with the elections done, you can be sure we will be on a roll. You rose to fame when you released ‘Huwezi nidandia’ as a response to Kristoffs’ hit ‘Dandia’. You even used beats from the initial song. How did he respond?He actually liked it which I must say was a blessing in disguise. Remember how big Wahu's ‘Kinyaunyau’ was as a response to Deux Vultures' ‘Kibow wow’?  My song had the same impact though I must confess that it was leaked before we thought it through. ‘Dandia’ has a strong message from me as a feminist and I felt the need to respond to Kristoff's lyrics. Your songs mostly have Sheng titles. How do you come up with them?They come up when I am writing the lyrics. What dominates in the song is what I pick as the title. The people I hang out with also influence my lyrics a great deal. You had a nasty breakup with Timmy Tdat and many negative rumours surfaced during that time.They were all but lies but I don't waste my time responding to such negativity. We have moved on and are still good friends. Would you ever date publicly again? Not at all, I have learnt to keep my private life private. You recently survived two road accidents. What has it taught you about life if anything?You can’t control what happens in life but you can control how you respond to it. 
 