The National Super Alliance (Nasa) joint parliamentary group meeting that had been planned for Tuesday morning ahead of the resumption of parliamentary business in the afternoon has been called off. Nasa CEO Norman Magaya told Nation that “there is no PG” while leader of minority in the National Assembly John Mbadi said that the coalition principals postponed the meeting to another date but did not give any reason. “It was in the interest of the principals that the meeting be rescheduled to a date to be announced later,” Mr Mbadi, who is also Suba South MP said. DISPUTES The meeting was to plan the opposition's agenda in parliament that includes finalising the disputes relating to its nomination of members to the House leadership as well as constitution of House committees. The opposition was also expected to affirm its decision not to participate in the vetting of cabinet secretary nominees by not submitting its members to the Committee on Appointment of the National Assembly on the account of not recognizing the re-election of President Uhuru Kenyatta. The committee chaired by National Assembly Speaker is responsible for vetting of Cabinet Secretary nominees as and when nominated by the president. Nasa leaders Raila Odinga and Musalia Mudavadi met in Maanzoni two weeks ago and made a resolution not to recognise President Kenyatta’s leadership.  Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi said that the cancellation of the joint PG was done to allow members to participate in the 8th East African Community inter-parliamentary games in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania. GAMES The ten-day tournament that features football, golf, netball, athletics, tug-of-war and volleyball ends on December 12. The games are played under the theme- integrating citizens and strengthening inter-parliamentary relations through sports to bring together the regional MPs. Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, Burundi, Rwanda and South Sudan are other members of the regional bloc. However, MPs from Rwanda and South Sudan have skipped this year’s competition, while employees from East African Legislative Assembly will compete as guest as guest team in the ten day tournament. The games will be held at Uhuru stadium and National stadium as well as Jakaya Kikwete Youth stadium and will for the first time feature walking race. 
  
The principals met at Mr Mudavadi’s house and agreed on how to share House positions