Tourism got a shot in the arm Thursday after a luxury cruise ship docked at the port of Mombasa with more than 800 passengers and crew. MS Silver Spirit, which is operated by Silverseas Cruises, arrived at the port from Seychelles with 472 tourists and 365 crew. It was the second vessel to visit Mombasa, after MS Nautica, which docked last month. Aboard were Americans, British, Mexicans, Australians the Dutch and Germans. Australian tourist Lorraine Smith said she was over the moon after visiting Kenya for the second time following another four years ago. “I had a lifetime dream safari in the Mara where I spotted beautiful wild animals including lions, elephants, cheetahs, giraffes, leopards and buffaloes,” said Smith.Ms Smith said she plans to tour Mombasa as well as visit historical sites. A Mexican Jaime Bonilla termed his visit to Mombasa a dream come true, saying it was his first trip to Africa. “For years, I had been yearning to come to Kenya so that I can enjoy the beauty of this country. The weather is lovely while the people are very friendly,” he said. An Australian couple Helen Collin and Rick Cooper said they were happy to be in Kenya for the first time. “We love Kenya very much. It was a longtime dream for us to visit Mombasa. We are on a tour of the city to have fun,” they said. Tourists were expected to tour Mombasa city, Fort Jesus monument and Haller Park in Bamburi. Kenya Tourism Board chief executive officer Betty Radier said the arrival of MS Silver Spirit was a boost to tourism, adding that cruise ships bring to the country high-end holidaymakers. “Following our marketing campaigns in cruise source markets such as the United States, our efforts are paying off as luxury ships are now coming to Mombasa,” she said. The KTB boss said Mombasa was a popular cruise tourism destination owing to the warm weather, beautiful beaches as well as being closer to Tsavo East and West National Parks and Shimba Hills Game Reserve. READ: Kenya tourism to grow 6pc annually in the next decade, global report projects She said the marketing agency would continue to promote Mombasa for the city to attract more cruise holidaymakers. Mombasa Tourism executive Fauz Rashid said the county would market the destination to woo more international tourists to visit the city for holiday. He said the county government would work hand in hand with the Ministry of Tourism as part of efforts to revive the industry.Kenya Ports Authority (KPA) senior principal communication officer Haji Masemo said he expects more cruise ships to visit Mombasa in January next year. He said following calm enjoyed in the country, more liners were interested in bringing tourists to Kenya for them to visit national parks for game viewing, Mombasa city tours and historical sites.  