Kenya’s Shujaa failed in their bid for the main Cup quarterfinals when they lost to hosts South Africa 26-7 in their last Pool “A” match of Cape Town Seven at Cape Town Stadium on Saturday. Shujaa, who disappointed against France when they squandered their 14-0 lead to lose 21-14, recovered to beat Russia 34-0 in their second match but all was in vain with the Blitzebokke defeat. Shujaa will now play Samoa in the Challenge Trophy quarterfinal on Sunday at 11.36am. Tries from Ruhan Nel and Kyle Brown put South Africa ahead 14-7 at the break even after William Ambaka responded for the Kenyan team. South Africa ran out comprehensive winners in the second-half, with Philip Snyman and Seabelo Senatla adding their names to the score sheet. Ealrier, Shujaa recovered from their disappointment against France to crush Russia 34-0. With both teams looking for their first victory, it’s Shujaa who showed more hunger with three successive tries from Brian Tanga, Samuel Oliech and William Ambaka to give the Kenyans a commanding 17-0 lead at the break. Kenya maintained their momentum into the second session to score three more tries through Daniel Sikuta with Arthur Owira and Samuel Muregi going for their maiden tries of the series.  Kenya started on the wrong footing when they were punished heavily by Farce for their basic handling and easy turnovers errors.  The Frenchmen rallied from being 14-0 at the break to win 21-14 in their opening Pool “A” duel. Fresh from retaining their Dubai Sevens title, “Blitzebokke”, who are the World Rugby Sevens Series champions, crushed Russia 45-4 and France 31-5 to book their Cup quarter-final ticket with a match at hand against Kenya.  Shujaa dominated France to lead the first half 14-0, with some superb set-piece and open play that saw Samuel Oliech sliced through on the inside to score and convert for a 7-0 lead.  That was after William Ambaka broke free on the left flank from some good work out before off loading to Brian Tanga from a tackle before Oliech was put through at the centre. Tanga galloped through the middle with good display to score as Oliech converted to put Shujaa ahead 14-0 at the drinks. Shujaa almost extended their lead only for Oscar Ouma to be brought down just five metres off the try line.  Poor decision making would cost Shujaa heavily after they opted to spread the ball wide to suffer a turnover with France defending well.  It’s substitute Jean Baptiste Mazoue, who who turned around France fortunes when he picked the ball off the ruck to sprint for the try line.   
 