Residents of Nyanza on Tuesday boycotted celebrations to mark Jamhuri Day. In Kisumu, County Commissioner Pauline Dola read the President’s speech in a near-empty ground as locals kept off the event.  When she stood to speak, she only had her peers from the national government and journalists covering the event. Governor Anyang’ Nyong’o did not attend and neither did he send a representative. In Siaya County, residents too gave the ceremony a wide berth. The event, held at the county stadium, was only attended by a small crowd and national government employees. However, the event went on, with County Commissioner Josephine Onunga reading the President’s speech. MIGORI In Migori, leaders and residents also stayed away from the function. Most seats at the Migori stadium remained empty with mainly chiefs, civil servants, and children attending the fete. County Commissioner Joseph Rotich read the President’s speech. However, in Kuria, celebrations went on smoothly in Mabera/Kuria West and Kegonga/Ntimaru sub-counties.   The public attended the events in which security matters dominated the speeches. In Homa Bay, County Commissioner Kassim Farah warned youths against acts of lawlessness resulting in loss of property and lives. A small crowd that included national government officials attended. GAMBLING In Kakamega, county commissioner Kang’ethe Thuku read the President’s speech in the event also attended by Governor Wycliffe Oparanya. In Vihiga, County Commissioner Alex ole Nkoyo and Governor Wilber Ottichilo jointly declared a ban on all slot machines being used for gambling in towns. In Kericho, Governor Paul Chepkwony and County Commissioner Mukhtar Abdi called for unity and peace; while in Busia local leaders avoided the celebrations but County Commissioner Michael Tialal revealed that security agencies in Kenya and Uganda had agreed to work together to tame rising insecurity. BOMET In Kisii, the large attendance by county staff appeared to save face as the County Commissioner Godfrey Kigochi and Governor James Ongwae read their speeches. Mr Ongwae welcomed President Kenyatta’s recent move of signing into law the County Allocation of Revenue Amendment Bill. “This will help sort the delays in the development programme that have been witnessed for the last six months,” he said.  In Bomet, celebrations went on, with Governor Joyce Laboso and County Commissioner Erastus Ekidor leading the function.  Reporting by Victor Raballa, Shaban Makokha, Anita Chepkoech, Geoffrey Rono, Nyaboga Kiage, Nelcon Odhiambo, Derick Luvega, Gaetano Pessa, Barack Oduor, Vivere Nandiemo, Elisha Otieno 
  
President Kenyatta leads Jamhuri Day festivities at Kasarani. 