There has been a renewed and invigorated focus lately on the process of recruitment of the substantive vice-chancellors of the various public universities, which many would like to see competitively handled to ensure that only the very best candidates are picked to head these vital national institutions. However, this interest has tended to be centred only on the individuals seeking these top positions, rather than on the process and procedures as clearly stipulated by the Universities Act, 2012. As the name implies, the word ‘university’ connotes a sense of ‘universality’ in orientation and such institutions should, therefore, not be pigeonholed into some ethnic, regional and other pedestrian considerations and concerns. Meritocracy is and should always be among the key pillars upon which the leadership of the universities is predicated. TRIBAL ARITHMETIC Considerations of the tribal arithmetic, perceived political connectivity, or interference by interested parties, should not feature in the process of recruiting the leaders for our universities. The law clearly outlines the requisite qualifications for the candidates for such top positions, including their being “distinguished scholars with high standing and with comprehensive administrative experience”. To this, we must add the moral fortitude of the candidates themselves. A study commissioned by the Commission for University Education in 2016 on Gender and Diversity in Public Universities in Kenya, revealed that there was a correlation between the ethnic background of the majority of the staff and the geographical location of the institutions. This is, indeed, in contravention of the principles of inclusivity and equity in the recruitment of the staff of these public institutions, as is clearly provided for in the Constitution. Through stakeholder engagement programme, the study’s results were presented to the universities and the commission is pleased to note that some of them have progressively addressed the issues raised. Standards COMPETITIVENESS Our nation cannot meet its goals of attaining global competitiveness in university education if the set standards and expectations of meritocracy are not adhered to. As the regulator of university education in the country, we are, therefore, alive to the fact that these public institutions have various academic, administrative and governance organs with distinctive mandates. We firmly hold that the respective councils of the public universities and the constituent colleges should strictly adhere to the requirements of the national Constitution and other laws and policies that speak to enhancing national values and principles of governance in all their undertakings. The Education Cabinet Secretary, Dr Fred Matiang’i, has ensured that the appointment of the councils of all the public universities and their membership is properly constituted. INDEPENDENCE Universities should, therefore, jealously guard their independence to enable them to fully focus on and discharge their core mandates effectively. The commission will continue to ensure quality by monitoring the operations and governance of the various universities through regular and impromptu quality audits. This is in accordance with the Universities Act, 2012; Universities Regulations, 2014 and the Universities Standards & Guidelines, 2014. It is incumbent upon all stakeholders in the university education sector to ensure that our university education is globally competitive. Prof Ntarangwi is the secretary/chief executive officer of the Commission for University Education: mntarangwi@cue.or.ke  