Christmas is the season when almost everyone sends kind messages to friends and loved ones, wishing them joyous holidays and good tidings in the New Year.  The country is awash with parties and travels. Gifts are changing hands, and many cities are clear of the paralysing traffic.  Unfortunately, these festivities sometimes end up with regrettable hang-overs.  Not necessarily from imbibing alcohol — although that could be one of the consequences — but because of the many preventable deaths that we tearfully count. In the past, drink-driving has been blamed for the upsurge in accidents.  DISTRACTED DRIVERS Now, the omnipresent mobile phones — even among inexperienced drivers — and the unquenchable urge to make or receive calls or type away on the phone while driving, compound the situation.  Texting while driving means three things: taking your eyes off the road; taking your hands off the wheel; and taking your mind off driving. If this is not a recipe for an accident, what is?  Distracted drivers are not only a danger to themselves and other motorists, but also to pedestrians. Boda boda riders are now common place. They are known for dangerously manoeuvring vehicles and pedestrians as they dance on potholes and rough roads.  RISKYSome of the riders have dangerous riding habits.  And as though that is not scary enough, some make calls, or use one hand to type on their phones while zooming through traffic.  Never mind that some do all this while carrying passengers or large loads. There is also another category of people, especially the younger ones who walk with their earphones plugged into their ears. This is risky, especially if one is standing or walking near a road. If there is a vehicle driving dangerously behind, it will be difficult to hear it and react fast enough to avoid a crash. SOCIAL MEDIAThe National Transport Services Agency should do more in educating Kenyans on the dangers of distracted driving.  Sending press releases and appearances on TV are good, but not enough.  The majority of Kenyans get their news through social media, and because of competing information, they consume small chunks of information.  Short targeted video-clips demonstrating the dangers that lurk on our roads can increase content retention.  Such content is more likely to be shared among friends and family through social media.  Smart devices have also become very intrusive and could spoil good dinners during this season.  SOCIALISING Many families and friends will be excited to meet after a long time.  This excitement however may be short-lived if phones rear their ugly faces and distract fellowship.  There is perhaps nothing as irritating as speaking to someone who is glued to their phone.  Just keep those gadgets away and enjoy authentic family time. Reading or typing away on your phone when in conversation with someone is disrespectful.  TIPS It sends a message that the stuff on the phone is more important than the person you are speaking to.  As you meet with your dear ones, here are a couple of digitally-instigated nuances to watch out for. Don’t bring up or share extremely opinionated viewpoints such as political or religious leanings or thoughts on controversial topics.  These could become lightning rods, especially in a country as politically divided as ours.  When you take photos and video clips of your friends and family, before you post them on social media, get the permission of the people in the pictures. Some might not be amused to see their images on the Internet. To minimise the risk of crime, vandalism or identity theft, never let others know when you’ll be away from home through your public social media.  You may be giving out too much information to too many people. Merry Christmas! The writer is an informatics specialist. samwambugu@gmail.com. @samwambugu2 
 