Boys dominated the top positions in the 2017 Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education examination results in the Coast region. At Memon Academy and Aga Khan High Schools, four boys scored A- (minus) of 80 aggregate points. Aga Khan Academy High School had Ibrahim Kalema Baraza, Emmanuel Junior Kaburu and Juzer Kassamali tying with A- (minus) of 80 aggregate points while at Memon Academy, Mohamed Mahmoud got A- of 80 points. Mahmoud is among 11 candidates, including seven girls and four boys, out of 104 candidates with A- mean grades. He was followed by Abdulbasit Fahad Abdalla with a mean grade of A- of 79 points. LIGHT ACADEMYAga Khan High School Principal Mariam Lavingia said the school’s mean grade had dropped but there had been an improvement in the quality of grades. “Our KCSE results have improved quality-wise. We have six A-, 10 B+, 14 B, 19B- and 64 C+ and above compared to last year’s 3A-, 8B+, 56C+ and above,” she said. At Light Academy, Nurdin Kullow emerged the best with A- of 79 points. The school celebrated after eight of their students got A minuses, 10 B+, four B, three B- and three C+. None of the students got a C plain, C (minus) or D (plus). KENYATTA HIGHAbu-Hureira Academy celebrated the success of Abdirazak Mukhtar Ali, who scored A- with 79 points followed by Abdallah Mohamed Omar and Khadija Mohamed Yusuf, each with A- of 74 points. At Dr Aggrey Boys High School, the top students were Collins Odhiambo (A-, 76 points), Hussein Abdulrahman (A-, 75 points) and Musembi Denis with A- (76 points). Also, three students from the institution scored A- this year compared to last year when the highest student scored a B+. At Kenyatta High School, six students scored A-, 26 had B+, had 19 B and 19 had B-. GIRLS' SCORESThe school’s deputy principal Lucas Mghenyi said they had targeted a mean score of 10. Among those who scored A- in the school are Ngumbao Andrew Sande (77 points), Kailo Joseph Kingi (75 points) and Mugoswa Alex Jeremiah (75 points). Top girls in the region, Memom Academy High School, had four girls — Fauzia Hadokutu Ali, Maarya Elyas Bachani, Tanzila Omar Jiin and Khadija Salim Ghalgan — tying at a mean grade of A- with 78 points. CAREER Hafsa Abdi Mohamed and Khulud Mahmoud Nurani also tied with a mean grade of A- of 77 points aggregate while Amal Abdulhakim Said and Murad Omar Islam scored A- of 75 and 77 points respectively. At Sheikh Khalifa Bin Zayed Secondary School, the top student was a girl, Sauda Habib, with 78 points. “I got A- and I want to study medicine at the University of Nairobi. I never expected these marks,” she said. Additional reporting by Lucy Mkanyika and Brian Ocharo   It was ranked second nationally with a performance index of 69.1 points.