Four opposition legislators have accused the government of plotting to withhold funds from county governments in Nasa strongholds, which approved motions to form the People’s Assembly. MPs Samwel Atandi (Alego-Usonga), Gladys Wanga (Homa Bay County), Lillian Gogo (Rangwe) and Walter Owino (Awendo) slammed the Jubilee administration. RESOURCES "We are aware of a plot by the government to cut resources for Nasa-affiliated counties because of their nod for the People's Assembly initiative," claimed Mr Atandi. He said the national government has no authority to deny the counties their resource allocations. "The national resources set to be channelled to counties is not a gift but a requirement by the Constitution. We shall resist attempts to issue resources to counties based on their political support," said Mr Atandi. The legislators spoke on Sunday during a funds drive in aid of the construction of classrooms at Ondicho Primary School in Rangwe Constituency, Homa Bay County. RIGHT Dr Gogo said counties in opposition strongholds have a right to receive funds and resources from the national government as residents in those counties are also taxpayers. "Any attempts to deny a section of counties resources based on their political affiliation shall be resisted by all Kenyans," said Dr Gogo. The legislators threatened to marshal their supporters to boycott paying taxes should the national government fail to release funding to counties in Nasa strongholds. Ms Wanga said the opposition will not relent until their demands for electoral justice are met. "Our leader Mr [Raila] Odinga cannot relent on his quest for electoral justice in the country. We shall back him in his plans," said Ms Wanga. ILLEGAL On Friday last week, Attorney General Githu Muigai warned counties that have passed the People's Assembly motions, saying it was an alien term to the Constitution because it is neither established within the framework of the County Government's Act or any other legislation. Some 11 counties have so far passed the motion as directed by Nasa. The AG warned that by establishing People's Assemblies, the respective county assemblies may be deemed to have rescinded their elective roles, as they have handed back to the people their sovereignty. 
  
Coalition says it has not abandoned its quest for electoral justice.