After nearly five years of uncertainty and dilly dallying, the Solar Water Heating Regulations 2012 has finally come into force following the expiry of the grace period for its implementation. Also effective are the new regulations on energy management and solar photovoltaic systems imposed by the Energy Regulatory Commission (ERC), the sector’s regulatory agency. This development is, indeed, of paramount significance to the country. It brings solar energy into the mainstream of the country’s energy mix, heralding a major growth for the sector. For instance, the solar water heating regulations require that all the premises within the jurisdiction of local authorities with hot water requirements of a capacity exceeding 100 litres per day shall install and use solar heating systems. GREEN ECONOMY That will affect virtually all the new major construction projects. Under the energy regulations, all designated energy consuming facilities shall carry out energy audits at least once every three years. Hey, it’s time for the energy auditors to wake up and smell the coffee! If implemented successfully, these regulations will reinforce the country’s commitment to investing in a low-carbon, resource-efficient, equitable and inclusive socio-economic transformation, which is the centrepiece of the government’s Green Economy Strategy and Implementation Plan 2016 – 2030. AFFORDABILITYIt also underpins the country’s commitment to achieving Agenda 2030 on ‘Sustainable Development and the Sustainable Energy For All’ initiative. Undoubtedly, the paradigm shift to a low-emission and climate-resilient development is driven largely by the appeal and accessibility of solar power in the sub-Saharan Africa countries, including Kenya. Thanks to new investments in technology, there has been a dramatic drop in the price of solar gadgets, making them easily affordable to the middle class and also to the poor across the continent. In Kenya, for example, at Sh800 or less, the educational institutions and parents are now able to procure solar lanterns for pupils in the remote areas of the country. This enables them to save the money they would have spent on expensive diesel-powered lamps, and is thus improving the quality of learning in those institutions. HEALTH CARE In addition, frontline health care workers where the population is not connected to the national electricity grid are now able to provide basic services, thanks to the acquisition of solar-powered medical equipment, including plug and play solar systems to power foetal heart monitors and cell phones, among other gadgets. Inevitably, the growing uptake of solar technology will generate thousands of jobs in the country. Mostly to benefit from this development are the young people, who are the best positioned to serve as solar technicians and even entrepreneurs. However, for the industry to thrive, there is a need for all the stakeholders in the industry to strive to play their roles more effectively. For a start, the government should take the lead in ensuring that all the solar energy regulations are implemented without fear or favour across the country. PRIVATE SECTOR Furthermore, the county authorities should integrate solar energy into their urban renewal strategies. Government leadership in the area of climate action will also go a long way in enabling the unlocking of funds from some local and external resources, including through the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) mechanisms, bilateral and multilateral channels. For its part, the private sector can contribute through better coordination, lobbying and partnerships. Collectively, there is also a need to address the issue of counterfeits and sub-standard solar products that have flooded the Kenyan and East African markets in recent years. At the same time, and through the public-private partnerships, it is possible in the long-term to fully address the financial, capacity and technical constraints that continue to undermine the growth of the sector. The solar revolution has the real potential to fundamentally transform our country. Are we ready? Mr Kinoti is the marketing head of the green energy company, Solarpoa East Africa. info@solarpoa.co.ke  