Sports Principal Secretary Kirimi Kaberia on Sunday paid glowing tribute to the role Africa’s journalists have played in fighting corruption and doping in sports and pledged the government’s continued support for Kenya’s sports media. Kaberia called on the media not to relent in their “noble undertaking” by going further to expose those behind corrupt activities and the use of prohibited performance-enhancing substances on the continent. “I urge all of you to continue supporting your governments in the fight against doping. You have a responsibility to sensitize members of the public, and particularly sports people, about doping and the dangers it pose to their career,” said Kaberia as he officially opened the International Sports Press Association (AIPS) Africa Congress at the Nairobi Safari Club. BUILD THE CAPACITY “You have a responsibility of exposing and reporting the managers, promoters, coaches and others who are likely to expose the young talent to doping as a way of combating the madness.” Kaberia said as countries reflected on areas of co-operation, there was need to build the capacity sportsmen and women and called on the media to work with sports federations, clubs and individuals to enhance athletes’ skills in branding and in expressing themselves.  “This will go a long way in enhancing their marketing value. I wish to urge the media fraternity to partner with us in developing the profiles of our sports people and building their communication skills,” said Kaberia.  “We only hear of some of our great athletes when they win international championships,” noted Kaberia, adding that the Kenyan government is committed to developing sports infrastructure “as a way of empowering the youth by giving them avenues to nurture their talent. 'KEEP US ON OUR TOES' “I appreciate and welcome the scrutiny and continued positive pin-pointing of both success and failure. Kindly keep us on our toes,” said Kaberia. AIPS President Gianni Merlo, AIPS-Africa head Mitchell Obi and Sports Journalists’ Association of Kenya President Chris Mbaisi also addressed the gathering. Mbaisi said Kenyan journalists had made great strides internationally, winning several awards as testimony while Merlo implored the continent’s writers to be consistent in their crusade against bad governance. In his presentation, Karugor Gatamah, the chief executive officer at the Africa Corporate Governance Advisory Services Limited, engaged the journalists, drawn from 30 Africa countries, in governance in sports and the role of the African sports journalist. Gatamah said that sports journalists must be empowered with the capability and capacity so as to educate people about the principles of good governance, how and what information they need to hold leaders top account.  “The media can help create an informed people and encourage to exercise their right to demand accountability and good governance. It can also help provide accurate, reliable and objective information that will force policy-makers and officials in sports to be more prudent about any decisions and activities that affect the livelihood of people and the development of the society as a whole.” Gatamah said sports journalists should actively and objectively investigate instances, challenges or issues of concern about corruption and abuse of power and lack of transparency by the leadership in sports. 
  
Mbaisi will battle for the Second Vice-President’s position.