President Uhuru Kenyatta has ruled out engaging Nasa leader Raila Odinga in electoral reforms dialogue, urging opposition leaders to stop politicking and spearhead development. Speaking Saturday, the Head of State maintained that the election period is over and that it is time for the opposition leaders to support the Jubilee agenda. Mr Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto were attending the burial of Susan Wairimu, the mother of Murang’a Woman Representative Sabina Chege in Kinyona Village in Kigumo Constituency, Murang’a County. “Kenyans want to see our country moving forward and that is the dialogue we want to participate in. Lakini hii ya kuongea siasa ingoje 2022. Mtaongea na William. Mimi nitakuwa nikienda nyumbani.” (Politics can wait until 2022; you will dialogue with William when I will be leaving office,") he said. REFORMS DIALOGUE He was responding to calls for electoral reforms dialogue by Nasa leaders even as they continue with plans to “swear in” Mr Odinga as the “People’s President” on Jamuhuri Day. He said it is time to work and focus on development while creating jobs for the youth and reviving the agriculture sector. “It is time to work not engaging in talk. I am requesting leaders, whether in government or not, to end politics and unite to work for Kenyans,” he said. Mr Ruto, while appealing to both opposition and Jubilee leaders to unite the country, reiterated that the election period is over and leaders should be focusing on development. The deputy president said that President Kenyatta is working on uniting Kenyans and ridding the country of tribalism. “We have a government, leaders and an agenda to take the country forward. We are no longer competing,” he said. He told Jubilee leaders that it is their collective responsibility to ensure that President Kenyatta succeeds in his second term. The President also promised that his government will construct a 35-kilometre road that will connect Murang’a and Nyandarua counties. He also assured parents that the free secondary education programme expected to start next month is on course. NHIF The President further appealed to Kenyans to register with National Hospital Insurance Fund (NHIF), and announced government plans to expand the programme to reach every citizen. “It is important for everyone to register with NHIF because as a government we want every Kenyan to have a medical cover after [my last] five-year term,” he said. Senate Majority Leader Kipchumba Murkomen told the congregation that the President and his deputy were chosen by God. Mr Murkomen read Bible verses from the book of James 4:1-3. “What causes fights and quarrels among you? Don’t they come from your desires that battle within you? You desire but do not have, so you kill. You covet but you cannot get what you want, so you quarrel and fight. “You do not have because you do not ask God. When you ask, you do not receive, because you ask with wrong motives, that you may spend what you get on your pleasures.” 
  
Envoys tell Nasa leaders the international community is ready to help resolve outstanding issues.