Q. I am a manager in a real estate firm and we recently hired an in-house photographer. Before this, one of our sales agents, I will call him John, would take the photos which would be sent to prospective clients or posted on our website. Despite him not being paid, John still takes photos and does a better job than the in-house photographer. In the end, we use most of John’s photos, which demoralises the in-house photographer. How do I handle this?  Your approach to this issue is a good starting point. It’s best to seek feedback and fix the problem. Perhaps the in-house photographer’s camera is of poor quality or maybe he is not as experienced as John.  Worse still, it could be that he lacks passion and creativity in his work. Talk to him to find out what challenge he faces and solve it. Seeking feedback from the person who selects the photos is also important to establish what makes John’s work stand out. In addition, John can train the new photographer. This is not about competition but supporting each other to produce the best work and grow your business.  John could mentor the in-house photographer. As soon as he is able to stand on his feet, John can leave the photography docket to him and focus on sales. If there is no improvement in his work, instead of keeping a demotivated employee who is not performing, you might want to review John’s scope of work to include photography and review his pay to match.  A good manager should always look out for ways to challenge and build on potential demonstrated by employees and maximise their skills before hiring new people.  John has already shown exceptional skills and passion for additional work that he is not being rewarded for. He might surprise you with more superior work when the arrangement is formalised. Your solution is perhaps letting the in-house photographer go and motivate John to deliver more. Going forward, you need to revisit your screening processes to be sure you always hire successfully from the start. A competitive hiring process, including evaluating a number of factors and competencies before you pick the person most suitable for the role, would eliminate problems like the ones you face.  Strive to hire people not only for their skills, but because they believe in your dream, in your work and have a keen desire to be part of your success. 
  
Employees here are hugely demotivated. 