Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria will next week know whether he will be ordered to pay former Justice Minister Martha Karua millions for allegedly damaging her reputation after linking her to procuring of witnesses to allegedly fix Deputy President William Ruto. The MP had been given a chance by High Court judge Joseph Sergon to defend his claims but by Tuesday, he was yet to file his defence or appear in court over the matter. REPUTATION Ms Karua, through her lawyer Gitobu Imanyara, asked the court to go ahead and deliver its decision. The Narc-Kenya leader is seeking to be paid Sh20 million as damages by Mr Kuria after he allegedly claimed that she procured witnesses to fix Mr Ruto at The Hague. In submissions filed in court, Ms Karua says the words uttered by Mr Kuria were not only damaging to her reputation but also lowered her dignity among right thinking members of the society. She said the words were malicious, unwarranted and defamatory in nature as they injured her character, personal credit and reputation as well as standing as a politician, business lady, family woman and an advocate. The former Gichugu MP said that she has worked hard and diligently to build her reputation and, therefore, entitled to protection. She told the court that she has neither met Mr Kuria nor discussed anything to do with the procurement of fake witnesses for the ICC prosecutor. LETTER Mr Kuria allegedly made the remarks during a political rally in Kapsokwony, Bungoma County, on September 21, 2015. Ms Karua said the political rally was disguised as a prayer rally. According to the former minister, Mr Kuria alleged that she was ready to call her “to confirm” that the procurement of witnesses was just a political game. She issued a demand letter the same day, asking the MP to withdraw the remarks and apologise. Instead, she said Mr Kuria made the same remarks in the precincts of Parliament Building, Nairobi, the following day. She told the court that Mr Kuria alleged that they met at Galileo in Westlands area, where they drafted and schemed on how to recruit witnesses against the accused persons in the second case that involved Mr Ruto. But according to Ms Karua, the meeting at Galileo was attended by other persons—including the then deputy Prime Minister Uhuru Kenyatta— and was meant to raise funds for victims of the 2007-08 post-election violence. DEC 15 She said the meeting was attended by more than 500 people. She said the claims that she procured witnesses amounted to criminal offence as it damaged her image locally and internationally. Ms Karua was a member of the mediation team that helped broker a deal following 2007-08 post-election chaos, which chaired by former UN secretary-general Kofi Annan. She was later appointed Justice and Constitutional Affairs Minister in the grand-coalition government. The court will deliver its judgment on December 15. 
  
Mr Kuria says he stands by what he said about Ms Karua's involvement in fixing William Ruto.