Refurbished Bukhungu Stadium in Kakamega will be the venue, hosts Kenya and Rwanda the protagonists, on the opening day, and in the opening match of the 2017 Cecafa Senior Challenge Cup that kicks off Sunday at 2pm. After several weeks of uncertainty and frantic preparations, it is now left to the players on the pitch and the football they will exhibit to redeem this, the oldest annual regional tournament in Africa that failed to take place in 2014 and 2016. Kenya, a founder member of Cecafa will be desperate to, not only start well, but regain the title they last won in 2013, incidentally as hosts. With a new coach in Belgian Paul Put and renewed hope, Harambee Stars will be eager to test their strength against an Africa Nations Championship (Chan)-bound Rwanda side coached by the familiar - to Kenyans at least - German Antoine Hey, a one-time tactician of Harambee Stars.  Hey is making a return to Kenya for the first time in eight years. He left unceremoniously in 2009 but is unfazed by any potential whiplash that may come his way from Kenya. “There’s nothing special in facing Kenya. I will concentrate on my team and performing well. Majorly, we are here to prepare for Chan,” said Hey, who qualified Amavubi to the 2018 African Nations Championships (Chan) in Morocco, by knocking out Ethiopia 3-2 in a two-leg play-off.  Rwanda will be remembered for edging out Kenya 5-3 on penalties after a 0-0 draw in regulation time at the 38th Senior Challenge Cup staged in Ethiopia in 2015. Put has had good stints with small football playing nations in Africa including Burkina Faso and Gambia and will be expected to deliver in his first assignment for Kenya. But he was not ready to make any lofty promises. “Rwanda has shown quality by qualifying for the Chan. You can’t compare them with our team but it’s a good platform to see the level of my players and also learn from our mistakes to improve,” he said. “We will try to get a balanced team on the pitch. Football is a game that needs more understanding and this is important for our progress in the tournament,” the Belgian coach, just days into his new job added. Put will likely partner SportPesa Premier League top scorer Masoud Juma with proven goal scorer Kepha Aswani, while Europe-bound Vincent Oburu waits on the bench to see action. The midfield should be marshalled by Whyvonne Issuza, Ernest Wendo, Samuel Onyango and up and coming Patillah Omotto. Gor Mahia’s Boniface Olouch, who conceded the least number of goals in the 2017 SPL season, is the sure starter between the posts with newly installed captain Musa Mohammed and veteran no-nonsense Joakins Atudo manning the backline. Kenya have traditionally started slowly in this tournament but they will be aware the home crowd will want nothing less than a cracking beginning in Bukhungu. The second match of the day from 4pm will feature guest side Libya against Tanzania at Kenyatta Stadium in Machakos. Gate charges for the games are Sh500 VIP and Sh100 terraces. Let the action begin! Sunday's Fixtures 2pm Kenya v Rwanda - Bukhungu Stadium  4pm Libya v Tanzania - Kenyatta Stadium 
 