The parents of the 10-month-old baby found with 14 needles lodged in her backside will spend their Christmas behind bars. This is after Principal Magistrate Grace Omodho directed that the case in which the parents had been charged with subjecting their child to torture by inserting needles into her body be mentioned on December 28 for further directions. INQUIRY Ms Omodho was holding brief for Brenda Bartoo the magistrate handling the case but was absent in court because she is bereaved. On Monday, Ms Bartoo granted probation officer Esther Maina a few days to complete her inquiry before tabling a report on the parents. The report, according to Ms Bartoo, was to inform the appropriate bond terms the court would have granted the parents on Friday. However, that did not happen because the probation officer was absent from court. A mental state assessment conducted on the child’s mother, Jacinta Ndunge, has already confirmed that she is mentally fit to stand trial. The baby was found with 14 needles lodged inside her backside while undergoing treatment for diarrhoea and vomiting at the Thika Level Five Hospital last month. It was during her stay at the hospital that the discovery was made. An X-ray confirmed that 14 sewing needles had been lodged in the child’s backside and an operation was done to remove them. READ: Mystery of baby admitted with 14 needles in her body - VIDEO However, one needle is still lodged in the flesh of her backside as removing it, doctors said, risked harming her nerves and blood vessels. “There’s no point in removing it. It cannot harm her. We shall, however, continue monitoring her from the home,” said Dr Joseph Wanjohi, the hospital’s superintendent. After the needles were discovered, the child was allowed some time to recover at the hospital in the company of her mother before the police and children officers took her and arrested the parents. The child was booked into a protection home where she shall stay until the case is heard and determined.   Police suspect the mother is hiding crucial details that could solve case.