Q: I am a student in one of the universities in Kenya. There is a guy I am attracted to but he seems not to notice me. I want to make the first move but I don’t know how to do it. Please help  READERS’ ADVICE: Please don’t make the first move, it may turn him off. Just keep the hope that he’ll notice you. But if he doesn’t, there are always other admirers who’ll chase after you. Don’t waste your energy towards someone who’s not interested. Stephen Kitui.  Biologically, men are built to hunt and pursue, they want to chase, to feel challenged and they place more value on prizes that they had to work to get. Therefore, don’t even think of making the first move. Jeremy Muriki  What does he love to do? Do you love what he loves doing? If yes, join him when he is doing what he likes and the rest will come. However, let me caution you. Don’t pretend to do what he loves because you want to win him, you will just become a slave in the relationship. Just be there to encourage him, admire his accomplishments and inspire him to be his best. With that, you will win him over. All the best. Duncan Royal Class  A woman who approaches a man stands out, and men can determine a few things about her. Her bold approach tells us that she’s confident, spontaneous, brave, outgoing, direct and thinks outside the box. All of the above are attractive qualities in a woman; they make you appear real. You should never hinder your chances and opportunities by thinking you are too good to approach a man or assume that he knows you are attracted to him. Therefore, go ahead and make the move. John Kings  You don’t have to sit around for days and even weeks waiting on the guy to pick up a hint and ask you out. Taking charge and asking a guy out yourself will ensure that at least you had a chance. Otherwise you might lose that opportunity and leave to regret it. it’s so important to go after what you want, not just in relationships, but with everything. Allan Jimi  *** MAURICE'S ADVICE: There is one effective way of making someone notice you, you need to vote the bullet and make them aware of your feelings towards them. What you need to consider is that they may not feel the same way about you. It’s like every path in your life, there will always be a degree of risk, but don’t let that reality stop you from venturing. Many a times relationships begin and at some point, whether in the short or long run, they come to an end, again don’t let that stop you because sometimes the sweetness is in the journey because the destination is never guaranteed.   Start by always feeling good about yourself and dressing well