What comes to your mind when you see a young man and woman together?  Do you automatically assume that they are an item, or do you give them the benefit of the doubt and see them as just friends.  Opinion is divided on the issue of platonic relationships between men and women, so we got six people who’ve been there, done that, to clear the air on this somewhat controversial issue.   Elly Kevin, 22, and Phyllis Wanjiru, 21 Best friends   How long have you been friends?Phyllis: For about two years now. We met during a club meeting at Multimedia University, where we are both students. It was my first time at the meeting and since he’s as an old member of the club, he oriented me.  Elly: After our first meeting, our communication wasn’t regular. We would just exchange pleasantries but the frequent meetings at club events drew us closer. We are both passionate about taking up leadership positions and this was the focus of our conversations before we started talking about other issues such as relationships, school work and personal interests. Has anyone ever cautioned you about cross-sex friendship?Phyllis: Nobody has ever said it to me directly, but some people hint at it when I tell them that Elly and I are just friends. Elly: I am a second-year telecommunications engineering student while she is studying journalism. The fact that we are in different faculties makes some our friends doubt our friendship. Some do it openly while others tell me to be careful about the places we visit or the activities we engage in. Do people talk about your relationship, like asking why you are not dating?Phyllis: We get that lot of that, especially since neither of us is dating. Some people think that we are not in relationships with other people because we have romantic feelings for each other, which is not the case. When it comes to dating, we have very different interests regarding whom we would want to date. Elly: Each time we are seen together, I expect such questions. I am content with our just being best friends. Was addressing sexual tension a prerequisite to your friendship?Elly: Yes. When we realised that our friendship was getting stronger, we had to discuss that – the boundaries, and respecting each other. That has enabled us to nurture a friendship that is free from lust. Phyllis: We are very open in our communication and we know our boundaries as friends. When we started being close, I was in a relationship. I introduced them to each other to emphasise the fact that what Elly and I have is a platonic relationship. How do you ensure that you both stick to the friend zone?Phyllis: I would go with respecting each other and keeping the communication lines open. We spend considerable time together in the evenings and on weekends. Since he is my friend, I expect him to stick to his lane and treat me in a manner that is exclusive of sexual relations. Elly: We both know the limits of this friendship that we should not cross. Having different interests regarding the kind or people we would wish to date has also made things easy for us. Do you feel that your friendship could be a source of conflict if either of you were dating?Phyllis: I don’t think that it will be an issue because I don’t hide our friendship. I tell guys hitting on me about him and he does the same when he is pursuing ladies.  Elly: When either of us starts dating, we will have to regulate the amount of time that we spend together and how strong our friendship remains. However, I will also make a point of introducing my girlfriend to her as she is part of my life. Do you believe that a man and a woman can have a platonic relationship?Phyllis: Yes, but with a proviso that you are not interested in dating. I think that if your best friend is someone you consider a potential romantic partner, the friendship will be fraught with obstacles. Elly: Yes. I believe that a platonic friendship is possible because I have experienced it for the last two years.  *** Victor Ambuyo, 22, and Betty Muthoni, 21 Started off as friends but currently dating   Betty: Mid last year I had issues with my phone and a friend recommended Victor to me since he runs a mobile phone and computer repair business in school. We are both students at Multimedia University. He is undertaking software engineering while I am studying journalism. Victor: After I repaired her phone, she recommended me to her other friends. Through these hook-ups, we started talking more and developed a friendship. She has a bubbly personality, which complemented my introverted nature. Within a few weeks, we had become really close friends. Did you see each other as prospective dating partners when your friendship began?Victor: No. When we started, there were no romantic feelings involved. Because we spent considerable time together, our friends kept asking whether we were in a relationship and encouraged us to date, saying that we made a good couple.Betty: The thought of us dating was laughable. We had got so used to each other that I couldn’t imagine us in a relationship. Before we started going out as a couple, we dated other people although the relationships didn’t work out.  Victor: After a few months, I started getting deeply attracted to her. Often, she would confide in me about guys hitting on her and although I would listen and give my honest opinion, I was dying of jealousy as she talked about other guys with delight. That is when I discovered that we couldn’t continue being just friends. I tried to hint that we should date but every time suggested it, she would laugh off it off or joke about it. When did you start dating?Victor: When I realised that I had started developing feelings for her, I invited her out for dinner and told her that I wanted to date her. Surprisingly, this time, she didn’t laugh but expressed her willingness to be in a relationship with me.Betty: The more I got used to him, the more I liked him. He is honest and real. He doesn’t fake anything about his life or himself. These traits drew me to him. How is the dating life, given that you were once friends?Betty: The fact that we were friends before we started dating has made things very easy for us. He is still my best friend and confidant. Being friends first really helped because we are open with each other about different things, such as our social circles. Victor: Being friends first has helped to get many things out of the way, such as trust issues. We can actually tell when the other is lying or hiding something. Do you believe a platonic relationship is possible between a boy and a girl? Betty: That depends on how close they get. If you spend a lot of time together or confide in each other, feelings are bound to develop. It took me around six months to realise that we couldn’t continue being just friends because of the bond that we had created. We hung out often and shared a lot. Victor:  Although our friendship developed into a relationship, I still believe that a boy and a girl can be just friends. Sometimes having similar interests can draw people together. I think the most important thing is for the parties to be open about their feelings for each other. What are the benefits/dangers of being in such a relationship?Betty: If you are dating, you might be tempted to compare your close friend’s actions with your boyfriend’s. The good thing, in my experience, is that you get to understand the opposite sex better - how they think or do things. Victor: Having a close friend of the opposite sex is good in that you can get varied opinions on different issues. The danger is not knowing how to create boundaries or having to deal with the pain of unrequited love should you decide to disclose how you feel. In spite of that, I think that if you are interested in your close friend, tell him or her because you never know.  *** Eugene Obure, 23 and Jedidah Ondigi, 22Best friends and dating other people   For how long have you been best friends?Eugene: We have been friends since 2013. We met at a party through a mutual friend and just kicked it off from there. Ours has been a platonic relationship ever since we met. She has an awesome personality and is quite ambitious. She is that friend that pushes me to be a better person. Jedidah: When I met him, I was in a relationship. I was drawn by his understanding nature and knew that I wanted such person close to me as a friend. He is a very good listener and doesn’t judge me. You are both dating other people; are they aware of your close friendship?Jedidah: Yes. Is your relationship a source of conflict between you and your partners?Eugene: We used to have issues before but at the moment, my girlfriend is okay with me having Jedidah as a best friend because she knows the basis of our friendship. I also know her boyfriend and as much as we are not close, there are no issues between us. Jedidah: At the outset, our friendship brought about mixed feelings from our partners. Initially, my relationship with his girlfriend was quite hostile but with time, we started getting along. Would you feel comfortable if your partners had the same type of friendship?Jedidah: The basic thing is respect. As long as there is nothing else going on between them, then I would be okay with it.  Eugene: Actually she is. Her best male friend is a good friend of mine. I have known him for four years since my girlfriend and I started dating. What is the benefit of having a friend of the opposite sex?Eugene: I get to learn a lot from women, especially about their prudent nature. They also tend to be very concerned, a trait that I am slowly developing. Jedidah: I can trust them with my secrets. When I confide something in Eugene, I am certain that he is not going to gossip about it. I also like the fact that male friends tend to be very compassionate.  Do you ever exchange personal details of your lives or complain about your relationship with each other? Jedidah: That’s basically the point of having a best friend. If I need advice or I am hurt, he is my shoulder to lean on. Eugene: With a male friend I might not be allowed to vent my frustrations because I am expected to be strong. With her as my best friend, I can easily vent without being judged. What are some of the false impressions people have about cross-sex friendships?Jedidah: Most people don’t believe in platonic cross-sex relationships. They misinterpret our friendship, thinking that intimacy is involved, which is not the case.  How do you ensure that you spend quality time together without compromising your relationships with your partners?Eugene: We prioritise our relationships. As best friends, we don’t get to meet every day but if there’s anything going on with her or she needs to talk, we create time. 
  
Since your ex-girlfriend was the one that broke off your relationship, she has no business knowing who you are dating.