On his last visit a week ago, my brother Pius told me how he envied teachers. “You people are lucky,” he said. I asked him why. “Very few employers in the country can give you three annual leaves, one of them lasting over two months – and still pay you!” I told him to get serious. “Teachers Service Commission (TSC) must be a good employer,” he said. I asked him why he is not a teacher, yet he trained as a teacher at the university. “One day I will be back in class. You guys live some of the most satisfying lives in the country. You have easy schedules with no real targets and are respected by the community. TCS treats you well,” he said. “All that is useless without good money,” I told him. “What do you need a lot of money for?” he asked. “90 per cent of you work in your villages and don’t have to pay rent, you don’t buy food and spend zero commuting” he said. “I may be earning a little more, but all that goes to these expenses.” “You don’t know what you are talking about,” I told him. “To call our lives satisfying is one big insult.” Pius may have lots of praise for the TSC but the only TSC we teachers know of is Teachers Suffering Centre. And it all boils down to lack of good pay. Truth be told, we like school holidays. However, for someone to give you two months leave with little money is torture. I can tell you for sure that a lot of teachers are suffering out there for lack of money.  Take Mwisho wa Lami area, for example. As soon as schools closed, with teachers having a little money in their pockets and a lot of time in their hands, we became regulars at Hitler’s. This did not go down well with other villagers, who frequent Hitler’s.  These included Nyayo, Rasto, Tocla and Alphayo. Teachers used to be at Hitler’s from mid-morning to late night. As Nyayo was busy building my house, Rasto passed by one day, but did not stay for long. He excused himself to go to Hitler’s. It was around 10am. Nyayo asked him why he was headed to Hitler’s too early.  “Ni hawa walimu,” he said. “They are so many and Hitler has to dilute his stuff so as to be able to serve all of them.” He added that he was going there early before water is added. He was followed by Alphayo, who also complained that teachers had made life at Hitler’s difficult. “If I want to drink on credit I must go very early,” he said. “In the evening when there are teachers, Hitler hata haoni sisi ma-hustlers.” Once the house was completed, I now had time (and some money) and started frequenting Hitler’s from mid-morning until late. But once the money was exhausted, I had to find somewhere to go. With Fiolina and the many children around, sitting at home was out of question.  After visiting a few friends, it was clear from the eyes of their wives that I was not welcome if my work was just to come, take meals and do nothing other than discussing politics. Luckily, Hitler had heard that we were yet to be paid by IEBC – and didn’t mind extending a hand of credit. I wonder what he would do if he learnt that the money was long paid and already squandered. After exceeding my credit limit and with no one else to visit, I decided to stay at home at least for one day. With so many children around, I could not wake up early. But at 9am when I was still in bed, I heard Fiolina shout from the sitting room. “Mwanaume gani bado analala saa hii?” she shouted. “How will Electina clean the bedroom if you are still in bed?” she asked. I asked her to give me five minutes to get out of bed. Three minutes had not passed when I heard Fiolina loudly complain. “You take over an hour to just wake up, what example are you giving to the boys?” I could not answer so I left for the sitting room. “Na utoke na hizo socks zako chafu. No one will wash you dirty smelling socks.” I got out with my socks which I put out to dry in the sun. I was sure by evening, the smell would have gone and they would be ready to be worn again the next day. I was served tea. I looked at it, taking it in small sips as I waited for an accompaniment.  “What are you waiting for?” Fiolina asked adding “Hata sisi tumevumilia hivyo.” I would have rudely answered her but looking at how heavy she was, I against this and continued to look at my phone. She came back and sat opposite me.“Why are you always on phone? Who are you chatting with since morning?” I did not respond, I just put the phone in my pocket. “We need to re-arrange this sitting room,” she said. Since she could not do anything, all she did was to give instructions. I called the boys and we removed all the chairs and tables from the sitting room and took them outside. We also took the bed and cupboard from the bedroom outside. Electina started cleaning the rooms. “You can’t help Electina clean your bedroom?” she said when she saw me on phone. “What if Electina and the boys were not here? Nothing would happen just because I am pregnant?” I started helping Electina but Fiolina changed her mind. “Please go air the mattresses and check if there are any bedbugs,” she said, then added. “I can’t trust you with a young girl in the bedroom alone.” I resisted the urge to answer her. Once done with airing the mattress, she had more work.  “Look at how ugly our fence looks, why have you not trimmed it?” she asked. Together with the boys, we trimmed the fence.“I hope you have removed all the dirt after trimming the fence,” she said. We had not, and so we went back. It was about 2pm when we returned, and I was expecting some lunch. There was nothing, just work. Fiolina then said that Electina had been so busy with work and she (Fiolina) couldn’t bend. “Can you and the boys prepare lunch?” she asked “Kuna mboga, ni ugali tu.” Together with the boys, we quickly prepared ugali. As we struggled with our ugali and kunde, Fiolina and Electina took rice and some beef that they had miraculously kept.  My plan was to leave immediately after lunch, but Fiolina was not done with us. She needed the furniture returned to the house, and kept asking that we change the positions. There was still more work. At about 4.30 pm, she went to the loo and I got an opportunity to disappear.  Once on the road, I literally ran to Hitler’s and vowed not to spend another day at home – money or no money. Dear Dr Matiang’i, please reopen the schools. We can’t survive in our homes! mwalimuandrew@gmail.comwww.facebook.com/mwisho-walami 
  
Enemies of development will start talking of how a mean score of 197.4 is low.