Forty-one teachers will never again teach in Kenya after they were deregistered by their employer for misconduct. The Teachers Service Commission (TSC) chief executive officer, Dr Nancy Macharia, said the deregistered individuals will not be allowed to teach in any school in Kenya, both public and private. Interestingly, 40 of the banned teachers are men. The reasons advanced for the ban are desertion of duty, having sexual relations with students, insubordination and negligence, examination cheating and financial embezzlement. The offences were committed in 2015, 2016 and 2017. Notably, most of them were kicked out of the profession for sexual relations with students. CARNAL KNOWLEDGE Last year, 22 teachers who had carnal knowledge of their students were de-listed. Another 126 had been kicked out for misconduct the previous year, 100 of them for sexual relations with students. “Further, it is notified for general information that, pursuant to Sections 30 (4) & (5), 23 (2) of the Act, where the name of a teacher is removed from the register of teachers, such a person shall not be reinstated except by direction of the commission,” said Dr Macharia in a report. A teacher whose name is removed from the register of teachers ceases to be a teacher with effect from the date of removal, she said. According to the code of regulations for teachers, no one is allowed to teach in public or private schools if not registered by the TSC. An institution that hires an unregistered teacher is liable to a fine of not less than Sh100,000 or imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years or both. SEXUAL HARASSMENT Last year, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (Unesco) raised a red flag over sexual harassment of learners aged 13 to 17 by teachers in Kenyan schools. Teachers were said to be perpetrators of sexual harassment with 39 per cent of principals stating that teacher-pupil harassment had occurred in their schools. The verdicts came after the disciplinary system was decentralised, cutting the backlog of cases by up to 78 per cent. The TSC, which employs more than 312,000 teachers, said most cases were being heard and determined within two months, compared to more than six months previously. That follows a move to allow cases to be heard in counties under TSC directors and suspects invited via text messages and emails. BACKLOG HALVED A monitoring TSC report seen by the Nation, signed by Dr Macharia, indicates that the TSC had by last month completed 1,555 discipline cases as opposed to 1,307 by the same time last year. There were 448 cases pending last month as opposed to 883 at the same time last year, meaning that the backlog had been halved. Dr Macharia attributed the improved performance to fast determination of cases owing to the decentralisation of hearings. “We are reaping the fruits of our decision to allow county teams to hear the discipline cases,” said Dr Macharia. “It is envisaged that continuous monitoring at the county level will improve dispensation of cases even further.” READ: TSC interdicts seven staff members over exam READ: TSC interdicts principal over sex abuse On average, the TSC hears 110 cases per month, according to the commission’s report. It however said no case was heard between August and November due to the political environment as a result of the election campaigns and the national examinations. The General Election was held on August 8 and the repeat presidential poll on October 26 while the Ministry of Education-administered exams ran between October 30 and November 29. SUPERVISORS During this period, teachers played a crucial role as exam centre managers, supervisors and invigilators for the Kenya Certificate of Primary Education (KCPE) and Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) tests. Headteachers played the role of centre managers, with the critical task of collecting test papers from storage containers and returning answer scripts at the end of the day. Dr Macharia said the decentralisation of discipline cases, which started in November last year, had created more avenues for teachers to be heard at various points as opposed to previously, when hearings took place at the headquarters. “There is no major backlog of cases because the concerted efforts by management teams from the headquarters and all the county directors have hastened the hearings,” said Dr Macharia. According to the monitoring document, the TSC was determined to ensure speedy handling of discipline cases. It says that 235 cases were heard between May and August at the counties with 168 dispensed with in two months. EXAM CHEATING The reforms include a requirement for interdicted teachers to report and register with a TSC sub-county office once a month. Most invitations to hearings for the teachers are now done through the TSC county directors’ offices by short text messages, email or telephone, said Dr Macharia. Less than a month ago, Dr Macharia had said panels had been set up to hear cases of teachers accused of engaging in exam malpractices. She said disciplinary teams would fast-track the hearings. At least 10 teachers were implicated in cases of attempted cheating in the KCSE exams, which ended on November 29. “We want to ensure the cases (of irregularities) are dealt with judiciously and expeditiously,” she said. FAIR HEARING Dr Macharia said caution had been taken to ensure field officers thoroughly investigated alleged cases of irregularities to guarantee fair hearings. This year, she said, the TSC projects to receive fewer cases of teachers implicated in examination irregularities, adding “we will make available disciplinary panels as any time a case is presented to us” “I consider the cases of teachers accused of various malpractices a drop in the ocean. But we must get to the bottom of the allegations and ensure the cases are heard speedily and those found guilty published,” she said. The banned teachers: 1. Kavulu M. Joel 2. Kingaru Thumbi 3. Kavwaa M. Peter 4. Odhiambo O. Joshua 5. Musyoka Benjamin 6. Kovulo M. Josephat 7. Mwove Reuben M. 8. Okelloh O. Shadrack 9. Onyango Daniel Otieno 10. Kingoo David 11. Nyamai Onesmus Musalu 12. Alumasa Benedictor M. 13. Muthwa Syengo 14. Mutunga Johnstone Kamuti 15. Lugongo Evans Wanyama 16. Kitur Paul Kiprotich 17. Kipketer Monicah J. 18. Momanyi Wycliff Nyandwa 19. Kenyanya Peter O. 20. Chikamai Dennis S. 21. Omolo Shadrack Akelloh 22. Sausi Peter N. 23. Orongo Joshua Odhiambo 24. Mbatha Ndambuki 25. Muriithi Ndwiga Paul 26. Ombati Sylivanus Nchore 27. Neondo Omumia Paul 28. Mang’ongo Simion 29. Khamoi Felix Mariko 30. Kuria Michael Njoroge 31. Ooro Evance Otieno 32. Ndungu Gicheru Joseph 33. Gitau Wamjihia Geoffrey 34. Kinga David Mwangi 35. Muthama Kiilu Edward 36. Omollo Gervas Otieno 37. Kyale Simon 38. Munywoki Titus M. 39. Kennedy Adagala 40. Mabwai Charles K 41. Mangoli Wyycliffe  