Nasa leader Raila Odinga has reassured his supporters that his plan to be sworn in as the "people’s president" is still on. Speaking St Peters Nyamira parish on Monday, Mr Odinga called for patience. "My supporters should not panic, I am soon going to take the oath. I feel your concern.  "That is why everywhere I go you always give me a Bible to take oath. Let us be patient and wait for the right time," he said. JUBILEE The National Super Alliance (Nasa) leader maintained that 2018 will be the year when Kenyans will be freed from "bondage" imposed on them by the Jubilee administration led by President Uhuru Kenyatta.  "As Nasa, we are confident at reclaiming our stolen victory. Those who think that we will forget and move on should wake up from their slumber as we will fight for our victory," he added.  READ: State reacts to Raila parallel 'swearing-in' ELECTION WIN Mr Odinga urged Kenyans not to despair because "The new year is very dear to us as it holds a lot of luck to most Kenyans who have been oppressed by the dictatorial government".   Regarding Attorney General Githu Muigai's warning that swearing himself in is treasonable, Mr Odinga said that he is not doing anything illegal. He also said that he won the August 8 presidential election. OPPRESSION Similarly, Siaya Senator James Orengo, also at the parish, exuded confidence that Mr Odinga will become President in 2018 after the Jubilee government is kicked out of office. Senator Orengo asked the church not to cower while Kenyans are being oppressed.  "Uhuru will be taken down by Nasa, which will provide Kenyans with good leadership headed by Raila Odinga," he said.  Other leaders who accompanied Mr Odinga were Governor Cornel Rasanga (Siaya), Dr Oburu Oginga (MP, East African Legislative Assembly), Sam Atandi (MP, Alego Usonga), Elisha Odhiambo (MP, Gem) and Dr Gideon Ochanda (MP, Bondo). Dr Oginga said the coalition - comprising Amani National Congress, Ford-Kenya, Orange Democratic Movement and Wiper Democratic Movement - will not shelve their ambition of having their leader as president.  
  
Why swearing-in talk has caused panic, feelings vengeance and insecurity in Jubilee.