National Super Alliance (Nasa) leader Raila Odinga has termed the arrest of the coalition’s strategist, Mr David Ndii, a wider scheme by the government to intimidate Kenyans fighting for electoral justice. He told his supporters to expect more arrests and intimidation from the government. NOT COWED Mr Odinga said the government is hell-bent on ensuring that electoral reforms are not achieved. He maintained that the opposition will not be cowed into submission, stressing that Kenyans’ move towards electoral justice is unstoppable. “The people of Kenya will not stop until they finally get the electoral justice to ensure that each and every ballot cast by voters counts,” said Mr Odinga. He said Mr Ndii was with his family at the Leopard Beach Resort and Spa in Diani, Kwale County, when he was arrested. “David Ndii was collected like a dog by the police. His wife was told that he was being taken to Diani Police Station,” said Mr Odinga, adding that the police did not take him to the station. RESPONSIBLE The Nasa leader also claimed that Mr Ndii’s wife and his daughter Winnie Odinga were arrested. “After a bit of protest, my daughter and Ndii’s wife were released,” he added. The opposition Chief spoke on Monday at Prosperity Building in Kisumu, which houses Governor Anyang’ Nyong’o’s office. Mr Odinga was accompanied by his sister Ruth Odinga, the former Kisumu Deputy Governor, Deputy Governor Mathews Owili, Milimani Market MCA Joachim Oketch and other county staff. He added that the national government is responsible for the death of those who were killed by the police during Nasa protests and rallies. “They will have to answer,” said Mr Odinga. SACRED LIFE The former premier asked global leaders to speak out against the atrocities in Kenya. “I urge friends of Kenya represented here through their diplomatic missions not to be quiet when innocent lives are being exterminated through trigger happy police officers; they will be guilty of collusion by association. Human life is sacrosanct and must be protected,” said Mr Odinga. While meeting the governor and Speaker Onyango Oloo at the county boss’ office, Mr Odinga advised the executive and legislative arms of the county government to work together in delivering for the people of Kisumu. DEVOLUTION “There is need to have a harmonious relationship between the two arms [of government] to deliver. Devolution can work only if they collaborate and corporate,” he said. Mr Odinga pointed out that in 1963 and 1964, devolution, then known as Majimbo, was frustrated by the national government. “The people of Kenya need more devolution and must defend devolution,” said the opposition chief. Prof Nyong’o said Mr Odinga was keen on ensuring devolution works in counties.   Arresting him will not stop the coalition's plans, leaders say.