Five people died Saturday night in grisly road crash near Makutano junction along the Nakuru-Eldoret highway. Rift Valley Traffic Enforcement Officer Zero Arome confirmed the 9pm incident which involved a matatu heading to Eldoret and two trucks. The latest crash happened at Kware near Makutano junction at a sharp bend that cuts through the thick Koibatek Forest.  It is about 15km away from where six Kalenjin musicians and a driver perished at Kamara bridge and some 20km from Sachangwan, another blackspot where several people recently perished in a multiple crash involving more than 13 vehicles. The killer stretch has so far claimed the lives of more than 40 people in slightly over a week. “I am so devastated by this latest accident and I am yet to get the finer details as to the cause of the accident – how many men women died in the crash," said Mr Arome. However, he said the bodies of those who perished were taken to Eldama Ravine mortuary awaiting identification by relatives. INJURED An unknown number of people were injured in the crash and were rushed to various public and private hospitals in Eldama Ravine where they were treated and discharged. He said police were still investigating the cause of the crash which caused a heavy traffic jam along the busy highway. "Police have launched investigations to establish the cause of the accident and more details will be released later," said Mr Arome. On Tuesday last week, more than 17 people died and a dozen others were seriously injured in a series of collisions involving more than 13 vehicles including a Modern Coast bus which was headed to Kampala from Nairobi. KALENJIN MUSICIANS A week ago, six budding Kalenjin musicians died after their Toyota Probox vehicle collided head on with a truck transporting chicken feed from Eldoret to Kiambu. The crash occurred at Kamara, some few kilometres from the Makutano junction, the scene of the latest crash.  The government has announced that it will spend Sh500 million to construct a dual carriageway along the 50km killer stretch from Sobea to Makutano in a bid to reduce the road carnage. Transport and Infrastructure Principal Secretary John Mosonik while touring the stretch last week also announced that the government will construct a checking point where lorries will be inspected to ensure their brakes are working and a holding yard in Kibunja. Most of the crashes are caused by trucks whose brakes fail as they descend the steep stretch between Kibunja and Salgaa. The government also plans to widen the Nyanja-Kamara bridge and repair and install new guard rails. 
  
A total of 17 crashes have occurred at Migaa in the past two years.