Homeboyz rallied to hand Impala Saracens their first defeat of the season, 39-2, as Nondescripts claimed their first victory, crushing Mombasa 64-5 in a Kenya Cup double-header at the Jamhuri Park showground in Saturday's Kenya Cup action.  Champions Kenya Commercial Bank (KCB) mauled visiting Kenyatta University’s Blak Blad 70-16 at KCB grounds in Ruaraka, while Kabras Sugar downed visiting Nakuru 30-5 at Kakamega showground. Limping Mwamba were no match for hosts Kenya Harlequin, as they suffered 48-16 defeat at the RFUEA. Homeboyz came from behind 14-0, touching down five tries with a brace from scrum-half Mohammed Omollo for their third consecutive bonus point victory against the Sarries. Xavier Bett converted Dennis Karani’s and Samuel Motari’s tries to give Impala a comfortable 14-0 lead only for the Deejays to rediscover their fading tunes with a try from Aaron Khalechi and a penalty by Omollo to trail 14-8 at the break. Motari would be sin-binned for infringement in the ruck inside their 22-metre area where the Deejays got a penalty. Omollo opted to scratch before going for the dive and conversion to give Homeboyz the lead for the first time 15-14.  Another breathtaking open display from Homeboyz saw Motari weaving through Sarries defence for his second try that he converted to stretch their lead to 22-14.   Homeboyz prop Thomas Okidia was sin-binned for a high tackle and it’s from the resulting penalty that Leon Adongo scored before Vincent Mose converted to go within one point of Homeboyz lead 22-21. Omollo penalty, a pushover try by Steven Otieno and Augustine Lugonzo’s try after a sprint from the middle of the pitch, sealed the bonus point victory for Homeboyz. Substitute Kelvin Masai converted both tries.  The defeat will definitely cost Impala Saracens their Kenya Cup league’s lead with KCB moving to the top with 15 points alongside Homeboyz and Kabras Sugar.  Allan Katoni, Moses Begi and Fidel Oloo scored a brace of tries each to spur Nondies to victory. Other try scorers were Ernest Ngugi, Mark Onyango, Joseph Wachira and Francis Mukuka.  
 