Nakuru MCAs have refused to go on recess, saying they are broke. The leaders are also unhappy with the rules governing the disbursement of car loans as well as mortgages, and want to amend them before they can take the long December holiday break. The MCAs were required to break on Thursday in line with the county assembly calendar. They were to go on recess until February 13, 2018. However, when the motion of adjournment was moved by Majority Leader Stanley Karanja, the MCAs declined to support it and, instead, made a string of demands.  CAR LOANS The leaders said they were not ready to go on recess as they are broke. They insisted on continuing with business and have committee sittings, where they can draw some allowances, and pass laws that will enable them to take car loans and mortgages without security. The MCAs want the Sh2 million car loan and Sh3 million mortgage to be released immediately without any security. They also took issue with the regulations governing the loans, which were adopted by their predecessors. They argued that the rules were hindering smooth disbursement of the loans. Mr Karanja suggested that since the MCAs were not paid any allowances for plenary sessions, all of them should be included in a House committee to vet chief officers. He said this would enable them to get allowances. Deputy Speaker Samuel Tanui, while seconding the motion, said while many MCAs were ready for the recess, they were worried that the time to take the loans and start servicing them was fast running out. PASS LAWS “We want changes in the loan procedures. The money should be wired directly to our bank accounts without any security,” said Mr Tanui. Mauche ward rep Philip Rotich opposed the motion for adjournment, saying the MCAs should first get the loans to help them settle down and serve the residents. “We should first pass the laws that will help us get these loans without strings attached before we go on recess,” said Mr Rotich. Menengai West ward rep Simon Mwangi said: “We have been waiting for these loans for nearly five months and there is no progress.” Tinet ward rep David Malel opposed the motion over their lack of cash during the recess. Speaker Joel Kairo reminded members that the dates were set by the House and only a substantive motion can cancel the dates. 
 