The 2016 SportPesa Premier League (SPL) Most Valuable Player Kenneth Muguna is set to join Albanian giants KF Tirana. Nation Sport understands that Tirana has reached an agreement with SPL champions Gor Mahia to release the player for a record transfer fee and a percentage on his future sell. “He is highly unlikely to be part of the team next year. His deal to Tirana is at an advanced stage, in about a week’s time it will be through,” said an official from Gor who sought anonymity. Tirana Chief Executive Officer Hector Como has been in the country the past two weeks in an attempt to finalise the move which will see the player sign a four-year contract. “We actually wanted to sign him in August so that we can start the season with him but it didn’t go through. I am quite confident we will have him next month and his work is cut out to immediately fit into the team ahead of the second leg, “I am hopeful that he can bring creativity in our midfield under his former coach Ze Maria. Our target is to play in the top-flight next season and also retain the FA Cup so that we can play in Europa league,” said Como. Muguna boasts of a two-year experience in the SPL, where he has fast carved a reputation as a classy attacking midfielder, with wonderful ball skills. His three goals and nine assists aided the club to their unprecedented 16th silverware. “I believe I served the team diligently most importantly reclaiming the title. Any player would not want to turn down a new challenge in Europe. Hopefully it will be 100 percent completed soon,” Muguna, who is capped twice for Kenya, said. The former Palos midfielder will become the sixth star to leave the club after a season following in the footsteps of Erick ‘Marcelo’ Ouma (2016), Michael Olunga (2015), David ‘Calabar’ Owino (2014), and Geoffrey ‘Baba’ Kizito (2013) among others.  Tirana already has Ugandan duo of midfielder Tony Mawejje and striker Yunus Sentamu at the club handled by former Gor coach Jose Marcelo Ferreira. They top the country’s second tier standings with 22 points from nine games. Kenyans James Situma, Moses Arita and Francis Kahata have formerly featured for the side before. 
 