How did you become a chef? I am self-taught. Being passionate about food, experimenting with new combinations of flavours and working around food chemistry has always made people to love what I put on the table.  What inspired you to open your own food business? In Kenya, it’s sad to see countless fast food joints opening on practically every corner of this city, but there is lack of quality, healthy and fresh meals. This forces the working class to make unhealthy choices when it comes to food. So the journey of ‘Miracle Foods’ began to ensure people get fresh, healthy meals delivered to them for their lunch breaks.  What would you be doing if you were not a chef? Programmer. I have an Honours Degree for Applied Business Computing.  Who is your inspiration? Martha Stewart. She is one of the people who taught herself how to cook by reading cook books and watching shows. She made me believe that to be a great cook, you don’t need to hold degrees.  Anybody can cook as long as they put their heart into it. She has inspired people with her quick recipes, which can be really handy if you are time constrained. Which celebrity would you like to cook a meal for?Many Kenyan celebrities like TV and radio presenters are our clients. We even supply our dishes to some embassies and international NGOs. I Would love to cook for Martha Stewart and Gordon Ramsey. For Ramsey, it is hard to please him, but again, his critique will help me identify where I need to improve. Describe your style of cuisine.Miracle Foods is purely an online platform. We provide healthy lunch options delivered within Nairobi. Our meals consist of a salad in a jar, which is carefully designed to balance your protein, carbs and greens intake for the day. Parfaits made with a yogurt base and fruits are healthy desserts. What local Kenyan ingredients do you love to use in your dishes? We totally love our vegetables. As Kenyans, we are blessed because our soil is so rich. Our vegetables have an unbeatable natural sweetness and flavour.  What are three of your most popular dishes with your clients?Burrito Jar: A base of avocados with bell peppers and sweet corn topped with brown rice and beans, drizzled with spicy salsa dressing with lettuce, cheddar cheese and Nachos. Greek Salad: Lemon dressing with hint of garlic, juicy tomatoes and cucumbers topped with bell peppers and chickpeas, baby spinach, black olives and feta cheese  High Protein Salad: Herby dressing with bell peppers, chickpeas, sweet corn, quinoa, topped with Green peas, spinach, Feta cheese and pumpkin seeds When you are at home what do you love to eat? I love dessert, I have a terrible sweet tooth.  What is the nicest thing a client has said to you? When we receive an email saying how our meals have helped them achieve their dietary goals.  Share suggestions for teaching young children to cook.Let them get dirty and messy. For the 5-7 age group, let them whisk eggs, mix ingredients, mash stuff with forks or potato masher, roll dough for tarts or chapatti. Let them do icing on cakes - don’t worry about perfection. What tips would you give our readers?Meal prep for your Sauces: Over the weekend, prepare in bulk all kinds of pastes ahead of time. Like  
  
Beverly is a caterer and chef at Lynk.co.ke