Harambee Stars coach Paul Put proclaimed that he wants to ensure the team qualifies for the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations despite losing the opening Group F match 2-1 away to Sierra Leone in June. The Stars technical bench led by Put has drawn a comprehensive plan for the year 2018, as Kenya prepares for the next round of matches in the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations qualifiers. The plan includes playing at least two friendly matches in March and May, and thereafter, a training camp with all the foreign-based players. “We are going to organise those friendlies to give me an opportunity to know the foreign-based players too, as we prepare for the match against Ghana,” said coach Paul Put. “Even for the local players the job is not done, I will follow them by watching the local league. We need a very balanced team,” added Put. The next qualifier match for Kenya will be against the Black Stars of Ghana in September 2018, and thereafter, home and away fixtures against Ethiopia the following month. “Playing Ghana is not easy, you have to know you are playing one of the biggest nations in football, so I have to say preparation will be key for us.” “We are going to have two more matches in June, preferably in a camp set up for one or two weeks depending on when the foreign-based players break in May,” added FKF president Nick Mwendwa. The team says it wants to build on the Cecafa Senior Challenge Cup success. Kenya won their seventh title, after beating an indefatigable Zanzibar side 3-2 on penalties, after a 2-2 stalemate in 120 minutes. As a motivation for the team, sponsors Sportpesa have pledged to reward the players three million shillings for every single qualifier match they win.  The gaming company has also expressed interest in continuing to work with federation, in spite of the 35 percent gaming tax imposed on them earlier this year.  “We are interested in developing football in this country. It is one of the sports we want to see grow so in spite of these challenges, I am sure we will find away to continue partnering with FKF,” said Sportpesa CEO Ronald Karauri.  The team of 37 members consisting of the playing unit and technical bench are continuing to reap heavily from the Cecafa Cup triumph on Sunday. On Monday, Sportpesa gave the team Sh3 million in cash to be shared equally.  Christmas came early for the entire team and technical bench, as Tusky’s Supermarket also gave each a shopping voucher worth Sh10,000, totalling to sh. 370,000.  The retailer also pledged to invest in the game from 2018. “This team made every Kenyan very proud on Sunday by winning the Cup. We want to show our gratitude even by working closely with the federation,” said Tusky’s CEO Dan Githua.   The team is also to visit Deputy President William Ruto on Tuesday morning, to collect the Sh5 million winning bonus he promised them on Sunday, as he witnessed them win the title at the Kenyatta Stadium in Machakos County. 
 