Kenyans from all walks of life led by President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto took to the social media to congratulate Harambee Stars for winning the Cecafa Senior Challenge Cup on Sunday. Also to congratulate the team was is Football Federation of Kenya president Nick Mwendwa, who thanked governors Alfred Mutua (Machakos), Wycliffe Oparanya (Kakamega) and Anyang’ Nyongo (Kisumu) for hosting the championship. “On behalf of an adoring and grateful Nation and my Government, I congratulate our national team, Harambee Stars, for playing valiantly right from the preliminaries to the finals and emerging the Cecafa champions,” Kenyatta said on his Facebook page. “Hongera, you have done us proud!” Ruto, who was the chief guest during the final held in Machakos, praised the heroics of Harambee Stars goalkeeper Patrick Matasi, who stopped three penalties to spur his team to their seventh cup success, beating Zanzibar 3-2 on post-match penalties after settling to a 2-2 draw after extra time. Ruto would later reward the team with a token of Sh5 million as confirmed by Mwendwa on his Facebook page and Twitter handle.  “The heroics of goalkeeper Patrick Matasi and a vociferous home support sees Harambee Stars beat Zanzibar 3-2 on post-match penalties to clinch the 2017 Cecafa Senior Challenge Cup,” said Ruto both on his Facebook page and Twitter handle. “A dramatic, thrilling finale and a proud footballing moment for Kenya. Congratulations our boys.” “The moments, the emotions. Amazing. Thanks to all,” said Mwendwa.  Mwendwa also cashed on the opportunity to thank fans for turning out in numbers in venues to cheer the teams and especially Harambee Stars to victory. “Thank you to all the fans who came today and in the last 20 days. God bless you and God bless Kenya. We march on,” said Mwendwa.  Sports journalist journalist Collins Okinyo hailed Stars’ victory and Zanzibar for a good display on Facebook. “Kenya are 2017 CECAFA Senior Challenge Cup Champions! FT Kenya 2-2 Zanzibar, Pen. 3-2. Congratulations are in order,” said Okinyo.  Radio presenter Carol Radull was on top of the world on her Facebook page. “THE winning SAVE by Patrick Matasi. He saved THREE penalties! Ignore my excitement when jumping! Well done Harambee Stars!” 
  
Ovella Ochieng struck the opener with a beautiful free-kick in the fifth minute.