The Kiambu County Assembly’s adoption of a motion requiring companies operating in the area to give locals 70 per cent of the jobs has been greeted with some criticism.  It has even been suggested that the decision is a form of “functional secession”, as it privileges locals over other Kenyans and punctures the citizens’ identity into “indigenes” and “others”. It is important to appreciate that the motivation for this Bill is quite sound.  It is premised on the need to ensure that employers are sensitive to local needs. Jobs are scarce.  UNEMPLOYMENT With education institutions churning out 700,000 graduates every year, the unemployment challenge cannot be underestimated.  The situation is desperate, especially for youth. When a county that hosts many industries seeks to press its advantage in favour of local youth, this alone cannot be a basis for a reprimand.  Further, there is an increasing acceptance of the concept of local content as a means of supporting local economies and providing jobs.  Kiambu’s employment quota rule can be viewed from this perspective.  However, the focus on jobs as the only way to ensure local content is inappropriate.  LOCALS Maximising sourcing from local firms is an opportunity to localise supply chains where varying technologies and inputs are needed and used. If competitive, this may have a considerable impact on reducing their operating costs, while increasing the value that can be captured by local businesses.  Kiambu needs to reconsider the utility of its assembly’s proposal and anchor it within the realm of nation building.  The policy or proposed rule dichotomises the workforce.  It invites employers to assess potential employees from the perspective of whether or not they come from the county.  In this weighting and balancing, belonging becomes material in the determination of whether or not a job will be available.  AFFIRMATIVE ACTION This will no doubt assault the notion of meritocracy.  In the long-term, such a policy will negatively impact on productivity and weaken economic performance.  The proposed law seeks to entrench reverse affirmative action.  Ordinarily, affirmative action is designed to enable the weak to compete on a more equitable footing with the dominant.  It is never a device for deepening dominance.  DIVERSITY The danger of legislating in favour of the dominant is that there is no place for the “other”, who is ousted from the job market.  It will undermine the notion of our diversity and multiculturalism.  The proposed legislation is discriminatory. If one’s access to a job is pegged upon one’s place of origin, such a rule may run afoul of the non-discrimination clause in Article 27.  A facially discriminatory law or policy can only be legally allowable, if it serves to correct a historically entrenched barrier to the present enjoyment of equal opportunity by a group on account of their gender, race, religion or ethnic belonging.  Such is the nature of the Access to Government Procurement (AGPO) regulation, which earmarks 30 per cent of all government procurements to youth and women.  Absent this equalising effect, laws such as the Kiambu quota proposal, create hierarchies of citizenship, a truly unconstitutional effect.  ECONOMYWhile such policies may seem politically tempting, the risk of unintended consequences is high.  One must consider the indirect impact on the county’s economy as a result of “weeding out outsiders” as they, too, contribute to the local economy. An alternative is to create an enabling environment – institutional, regulatory and attitudinal – that will attract more investment into the county, and create more jobs and value for both locals and non-locals. Dr Korir, an advocate of the High Court of Kenya, is a legal adviser in the Office of the Deputy President. singoei.korir@gmail.com 
 