Q. I am a dedicated employee who needs no push or supervision to do my work. I am also very particular about the end product that I hand in and, therefore, I am careful to give nothing but the best. I have worked in this company for six years and have been promoted once. I should be happy and content but one of my colleagues, who is not as good a worker as I am, gets more recognition and a higher salary than I do merely because he is a bootlicker yet we hold the same position. Do I have to be a sycophant to move up the career ladder?   The promotion already demonstrates that the company recognises your dedication and contribution in your role.  What most employees fail to understand is that you are employed to do a good job anyway. Therefore, for you to be considered for a promotion, you must demonstrate ability to perform at the next level.  You must expand your span of knowledge and understand the business to get a promotion. You can only give value if you know how your role contributes to the implementation of strategy. Some of the attributes any employer would look for are commercial acumen and appreciation of the firm’s operations beyond your department. You must also have an understanding of the industry your company operates in, and your company’s position within it. This way you add value to your organisation since you become aware of new developments in your industry with a view to adopting them. Evaluate yourself to establish the reason you have been overlooked for promotion. I suppose you must understand what your supervisor expects from you in terms of performance and at what point you are considered an asset to the organisation fit for promotion and retention.  Your colleague has deliverables discussed with the supervisor, therefore, it is not your responsibility to appraise his performance. Your colleague and you have a unique salary history due to the salary at the point of employment and annual performance reviews. The sentiments about your colleague being favoured could be subjective. Have an open discussion with your supervisor and raise your concerns. You also need to dwell on yourself in terms of what you should do to be considered for a promotion and review of your pay package rather than focusing on your colleague. Consider requesting for stretch objectives to prepare yourself for the next role. Although it is possible that some employees are favoured, focus on meeting your objectives and excelling to avoid resentment that can affect your performance. 
  
I am 27. I started working for an advertising company in mid-2015. 