For a long time, people went to school to get formal jobs as a sure way of escaping poverty. In primary school, children sang that they would work hard to get into careers that ensured formal employment. For the first 30 years after independence, employment was guaranteed for all university and college graduates. Some were poached before completing studies. The economic collapse of the 1990s shrunk the job market, leaving only a few professions with guaranteed job security. For instance, many students opted to undertake education courses in universities and colleges because of guaranteed employment. With an ever expanding college-educated population and a near-static job market, opportunities have all but disappeared. So, it was no surprise when somebody posted a photo of a woman engaging in ingenuous business in one town. She carries a gas cooker, eggs, frying pan and utensils around construction sites, receiving orders for fresh fried eggs which she prepares on the go. COLLEGE EDUCATION Many people sympathised with her, for she has college education, and ostensibly, shouldn’t be engaged in such work. For some however, this is something to celebrate. Somebody has risen above her situation, and found something to do with her life! Kenya is awash with graduates moving from office to office searching for the elusive formal job. In the banking sector for example, thousands of graduates jostle for jobs in a shrinking market. Yet, information technology has made traditional banking almost obsolete — people now transact on their phones; they withdraw, deposit, transfer cash, and even borrow loans. This grim reality should awaken us to the truth of our times: The era of formal employment is over. Does this mean education becomes useless? Not at all. The country will continue training all forms of professionals. PARADIGM SHIFT What is needed is a huge shift in paradigm. The first step is to manage expectations. There’s a big difference between the reality in a lecture room, and the real world. Secondly, our education system must start preparing our students about the uncertain terrain in the job market. Only graduates who are willing to soil their hands will succeed in the changing landscape. The lady preparing eggs on the spot has already learnt how to adapt to the tides of time. Armed with her education, she will slowly penetrate the market, and after some time, she could employ others to help her in her vast distribution network. Studying a certain course does not necessarily mean one is destined to work in that line. We have seen doctors who have become successful farmers. Some economists have gone on to become great fitness trainers. ALTERNATIVE VENTURES Thirdly, our education system should impart patience to the graduates. These alternative ventures, which are a form of hustling, need time to nurture into enterprises. The era of clambering for quick riches should end. Fourthly, the government needs to provide an enabling environment to nurture start-ups and other forms of hustles. For a long time, starting a business has been made complicated almost to the point of being criminalised, especially for struggling youth. The tax regimes and licences should be streamlined and made easy to adhere to. The government, through uwezo and youth funds, should encourage more youth to apply for soft loans and grants. Further, these youth need to be trained on how to manage businesses. It is noteworthy that not all ventures succeed at the first trial. Roughly 3 out of 5 ventures fold up within 6 months of commencement. Yet we must extol the values of resilience and bold experimentation. A death knell has sounded on the era of formal employment. A new era begins. Let us starting bracing for the challenges ahead. The author is a medical doctor, author and education strategist (www.pbkarau.com)  