Thousands of herders who have been invading farms, ranches and wildlife conservancies in Laikipia County are emboldened by the narrative of historical land injustices, the Nation has learnt. Majority of pastoralists interviewed by the Nation claimed the huge tracts of land now owned by ranchers – mostly – white settlers was their ancestral land. In the past four months, the herders, with over 100,000 cattle, sheep and goats, have invaded private land, from large ranches and conservancies in Laikipia North to small farms in Laikipia West. The armed herders have wreaked havoc, killing wild animals and sometimes looting, leaving locals and ranch owners reeling in fear. HISTORICAL LAND INJUSTICES In an interview with a security manager in one of the ranches who sought anonymity, it emerged that the “historical land injustice” tag could be behind the invasions, with politicians using it to incite pastoralists. “There are politicians from Laikipia and Samburu counties who have been inciting the herders [telling them] that the ranches and conservancies were part of their ancestral land. “This has emboldened them to invade private property at will as they seek to drive away those [legally] occupying the parcels of land,” said the official. FOLLOW THE LAW However, Mr Martin Evans, the managing director of Ol Maisor ranch in Laikipia North, in an interview with the Nation noted that if the problem is about land, there exists the law that ought to be followed. “Kenya isn’t a banana republic. It has land laws that can be used to address such matters,” he noted. But one of the herders, talking to the Nation, described the land as “belonging to their ancestors”. “We have been driven here by the biting drought, yet those occupying our ancestral land don’t want us to access the pasture and water that is available here. We can’t leave our animals to die and there is pasture,” the herder said. Laikipia North MP Mathew Lempurkel has dismissed claims of being behind the incitement of the pastoralists to invade private property saying that is political propaganda by his opponents. MP BLAMES DROUGHT “Drought is entirely to blame for the current situation in Laikipia. The herders are being pushed by the biting drought. But once it rains they will go back to their areas of abode,” the MP noted. Locals whom the Nation interviewed also expressed fears of an orchestrated (political) move to push white ranchers and other land owners believed to be outsiders from Laikipia North and West. The locals now want the government to intervene and secure their property. Independent investigations also revealed that majority of the animals driven into private farms by the illegal grazers belong to rich and powerful politicians from both Laikipia and Samburu counties. ILLEGAL HERDERS WARNED Rift Valley Regional Coordinator Wanyama Musiambo warned the illegal grazers, saying the government cannot tolerate destruction of private property. “The operation to flush out illegal grazers from Laikipia North is still on. “Already, more than 150 people have been arrested and about 63,000 animals [removed] from private farms and ranches,” said Mr Musiambo. When asked about the land question in Laikipia, National Land Commission Chairman Mohammad Swazuri said the commission is still reviewing the situation and will deal with it. However, he remained tight lipped about claims by some herders that leases being held by some of the ranch owners have expired. Ironically, despite the tough talk by the government, locals feel little has been done to stop the herders from invading their lands. “The government is doing nothing to help the ranchers because nobody wants to lose votes by kicking out the illegal grazers,” said a rancher who sought anonymity.   Officer shot in attempt to drive away illegal herders and recover stolen animals.