Many readers were happy with the Daily Nation coverage of the tragic story of Joy Wangari, the Standard Three girl who died after being beaten up at Mukandamia Primary School in Laikipia. The story, “Pupil beaten to death for failing to read” by Nicholas Komu published on Tuesday, was highlighted on the front page, complete with her picture, and covered in detail on page 3 with more pictures. Journalistic codes of ethics, and legislation, do not allow the media to use photographs, names, or descriptions that help to identify children in such cases for fear of further stigmatising the child or exposing her to psychological harm, discrimination, rejection and such reprisals. In this case such considerations did not arise because the child died. Names and identities are central to good story telling. They help to humanise a story and help readers to connect with the story. If the Mukandamia Primary School beating story had no names or pictures, it would have fallen flat. Monica Naggaga Kizito wrote to say the story was heart breaking and publishing the child’s “innocent picture on the front page was respectful and touching”. Ms Kizito said she was writing, however, to request the Daily Nation to look closely at issues affecting people like Joy Wangari, who seemed to me a victim of a failed education system and poverty that resulted in her being bullied and not being helped. “This is the reality of many children and people in Kenya and indeed, in many African countries. "It would be good to have a bit more reflection and discussion in the papers about such issues at a social and economic level and what that would [mean] for education reform and other issues,” said Ms Kizito. WORK PRINCIPLES She was, in fact, saying the media do not do enough in covering the plight of poor children. All too true. While much of what she is advocating can still be done, children, unfortunately, do not become hot news for the media unless they figure in a scandalous, shocking or heart-rending story. Unless the story is horrifying, unless the child is a helpless victim, stories of child do not make it to the front page, or any page for that matter, unless they are babies born on Christmas Day or New Year, or they have done very well in KCPE or KCSE exams (a purely Kenyan phenomenon). Thus a nine-month-old baby that drowns after falling into a 20-litre bucket of water as the mother washes clothes in Mathare, Nairobi, will be covered but not a child next door who does not go to school because of poverty. Apart from this prevailing and reader-driven concept of what is news, there are the journalistic codes and laws I mentioned earlier that circumscribe media coverage of children. The Code of Ethics for the Practice of Journalism in Kenya provides that children must not be identified in cases concerning sexual offences whether as victims, witnesses or defendants. “Except in matters of public interest, for example, cases of child abuse or abandonment, journalists shall not normally interview or photograph children on subjects involving their personal welfare in the absence, or without the consent, of a parent or other adult who is responsible for the children,” the code states. The code further states: “Children shall not be approached or photographed while at school and other formal institutions without the permission of school authorities.” The NMG code, which is similar, adds: “In particular, a TV broadcast, that for reasons of completeness cannot avoid using footage where such children are a central theme, must use every trick in the book to mask their identities.” The Children’s Act also forbids the publication of a child’s name, identity, home, or school in any proceeding. Nor can the particulars of the child’s parents or relatives, any photograph or any depiction or caricature of the child, be published or revealed, in any publication or report. Though often disregarded by some media, these ethical and legal restrictions inhibit the coverage of good, humanised and touching stories of children in difficult situations. Send your complaints to the publiceditor@ke.nationmedia.com Text or call 0721989264  