Uasin Gishu County Governor Jackson Mandago has welcomed Nasa leaders who are set to hold a rally in Eldoret on Saturday, but warned them not to insult leaders from the region. He said locals would not entertain any insults directed at them or their leaders who support the Jubilee Party. In an interview with reporters, Mr Mandago said Nasa leaders had nothing new to offer them. “Now that they are coming to this county they should tell us what plans they have for the farmers and plans in terms of infrastructure development. Residents want tangible solutions,” said the governor. IMMOVABLE Mr Mandago said Jubilee is strong in the region and the planned rally would not shake it an inch. “They are free to come and look for votes but they will not get any vote in this county. The voter registration ended and we know this game is over, the numbers are out there and records speak for themselves,” he added. He further said they are firm in Jubilee, adding that the ruling government’s agenda is the best for his county. “We will not go where we will be engaged in guesswork, as they don’t even have a presidential candidate. We have also heard they want to create a chief minister office, which shows they are just power-seeking leaders,” he added. NEXT STOP - ELDORET During Nasa’ launch in Nairobi on Wednesday it was revealed that Eldoret would be the alliance’s next stop. Party leaders Odinga (ODM), Musalia Mudavadi (Amani National Congress), Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper) and Moses Wetang’ula are expected to attend the rally. Earlier this month, Nasa held a rally in Bomet, a presumed political turf of Deputy President William Ruto. Bomet Governor Isaac Ruto and Emurua Dikirr MP Johana Ngeno, both linked to Chama Cha Mashinani, attended the rally in Bomet alongside Kanu’s secretary-general Nick Salat. It is unclear if the two leaders will turn up for the Saturday rally. Neither Chama Cha Mashinani nor Kanu has officially declared whether it will back Jubilee or Nasa, or go it alone in the August polls.   Jubilee and Nasa claim to have amassed new voters to tilt scale in their favour on August 8.