The year 2017 is significant in the history of Kenya, as the country will be holding the second General Election under the new Constitution. As the race gains steam in the homestretch, many candidates have lined up for the various elective positions on offer. We met with five men and women in their twenties who have thrown their hats into the ring. These are youths yearning to change the political landscape in Kenya, and in turn improve the lives of the people they hope will vote for them. While some have been student leaders in their universities representing comrades’ interests, others have been keen on women empowerment at the community level. One of them has been advocating for youth inclusion in her political party. There is a published author among them, with two titles (about integrity and leadership) to his name. All have tasted leadership in various capacities and levels, and feel ready to take it to a higher level. Meet this ambitious quintet and hear what they are offering to the electorate.  ****** Mogire Onchiri Jared, 25 years     Education: Public Policy and Political Science School: Moi University Aspirant: MP, Bomachoge Borabu (Kisii County) Have you held any leadership position before? I was a class prefect in primary school. In Maseno School, I was the Games Captain as well as the secretary of the debating club. At Moi University, I served as the chairperson of the Peace Units Programme, before resigning to become the president of MUSO (Moi University Students’ Organisation). What lessons did your role as MUSO chair teach you? The biggest lesson was problem-solving abilities. Leading a highly volatile lot of students was not easy. I appreciated the importance of public participation in the decision-making process on matters of students’ welfare. Through my engagements with the university, I was able to embrace organisational skills. It was a wonderful learning experience. You must have star qualities… Servant leadership and advocacy for an integrated approach to policy making as well as extensive public participation in problem solving. I’m also a hard worker having been born and raised in a farming family. Upon what promises is your candidacy anchored? Our problems are consequences of poor leadership. Top on my priorities is infrastructure, which is messy. It’s sad that we still have children learning under trees. Stalled projects such as dispensaries are a common feature here. We must fix all this. We will also work towards establishing a middle level college or university in this area. Do you consider youth leadership to be the apt remedy for the old and sometimes ineffectual leadership? I don’t think age is an all-important factor in leadership. We have old leaders who have exemplary track records, however, since the youth form the largest proportion of our population, their needs are best understood, and acted upon, by a younger person. But to succeed we require the input of the young, the old, women and people living with disabilities. What do you think is ailing our political system? What remedies do you propose? We ‘delegate’ responsibilities to the leaders, ending our contribution at the ballot box. There is more to governance than simply voting. We must hold our elected leaders accountable for their actions. Also, we must reject voter bribery. If you accept money to vote for someone, then do not expect anything from them because they have bought your voice and loyalty. What is your message to young people across the country? Be the change you desire but appreciate that it’s tough to contest against the old guard, for these have mastered the trick of manipulation. What are your other interests besides politics? I practice agribusiness and participate in community service during my free time.  ****** Brian Imaita Karani, 21 years    Education: Bachelor of Finance College: Africa Nazarene University Aspirant: MP, Dagoretti North You were active in university politics… Yes. I served as the Student Council President in the 2014/2015 academic year. This is what compelled me to run for an even bigger position. What are you offering to the people of Dagoretti? I am offering service, integrity and competence. These will be the fulcrum around which my ideas, visions and objectives will revolve. I dream of a constituency that has quality basic public utilities that are accessible to constituents. Do you think the level of youth representation is commensurate with youth empowerment and development? This hasn’t been the case. If it were, we would have many successful youth programmes and enterprises. It is due to this inconsistency that most youth organisations and projects crumble before maturing. Have young leaders in the 11th parliament adequately articulated youth issues? They tried their best. My concern is that there is still some level of resistance towards youth-inspired ideas and proposals. It’s ironical that in a country where 60 per cent of the people are young, we still don’t have a loud enough voice. As we continue to grow politically though, there’s hope for change. Do you think politics is a clean career? Without integrity, no career is clean. Our politics is anchored on corruption scandals, excesses, insults, greed and tribalism. These vices tarnish an otherwise reputable career. What do you think about Kenya’s political landscape? Our democracy has really grown over the years. The aspect of devolution for instance was a massive step in the right direction, however, corruption and negative ethnicity have punched holes into our national fabric, consequently wrecking our economy and tearing our cohesion. When not fulfilling your political engagements, how do you spend your time? I run a photography and film studio and I am also a youth leader in my church. What’s your message to young people in Dagoretti and across the country? The time has come when the youth must be the leaders of today. I encourage every young person with the vision to go for the elective position of their choice, boldly and fearlessly.  ***** Salome Nthenya Nzuki, 23 years    Education: Bachelor of Arts in Gender and Development College: Kenyatta University Aspirant: MCA, Kalama Ward, Machakos County What motivated you to run for political office? For a long time, I have had a burning desire to influence positive change in the community, but I didn’t know how to realise this dream. In 2015, I attended a leadership workshop organised by Young Women’s Leadership Institute (YWLI). This gave me incredible insight into how to navigate the political terrain. I began by registering as a member of a political party in whose activities I have been active. Have you held any political position before? I have been an active member of the Labour Party, championing for increased participation of women in political parties’ decision-making process. For my burning passion in the fight for gender equality, I was elected the national Deputy Secretary General of the Labour Youth Congress. This way, I have been mentoring young people to take a keen interest in politics. How do you plan to involve the people in your leadership? I will seek to increase community participation in the affairs of our ward through barazas and other gatherings. I will create consciousness among the people so that they understand the roles of a MCA as outlined in Article 185 of the Constitution; to prepare them on what to expect from me. Members of County Assemblies are synonymous with flamboyance and excesses, how do you plan to address this? Those are MCAs who are driven by satisfying their interests.  Such leaders lack in integrity, and usually do not have any agenda for the people. When a leader gives hand-outs during campaigns, they will be determined to recover their spent resources through whatever means. I have a firm belief in transformational leadership and service for the people while firmly standing for fairness and justice. What specific agenda do you have for young people in Machakos County? The youth of Machakos are representative of the youth in Kenya. They face unemployment, poverty and lack of quality services. I will ensure that our youth are integrated in youth empowerment programmes and community development activities. I will also push for increased budgetary allocations for formal and technical education for all. Kenyan politics majorly play out along ethnic lines. What’s your take on this? This is a sad state of affairs as it perpetuates evils such as corruption and tribalism in terms of access to opportunities and resources. Kenyans need to embrace patriotism and national unity, and only support leaders based on these values, whether men or women, and irrespective of tribe. What aspects would you want changed in our political system? I wish Kenyans could elect more women in political positions, interrogate their leadership capabilities, and judge their ability based on their performance as opposed to social stereotypes. Do you believe that young leaders are better than the old guard? Why? For many years, young people in Kenya have been disregarded in leadership. Economic challenges put the youth at the mercy of the older folk with financial muscle. I am convinced that if you’re good enough, you’re old enough. ****** Susanne Margaret Otieno, 24 years     Education: Law College: Moi University Kenya School of Law: Diploma in Law (ongoing) Aspirant: MCA, Umoja Phase Two, Embakasi West  What leadership positions have you held? I was a member  of the 2010 National Students Council, which got me elected Student President in the then Nyanza Province in 2010. I was involved with drafting a petition, “Learner Friendly Schools” to the Kenyan government and education stakeholders. It was to lobby for the use of dialogue to resolve school unrests and expulsions. I am currently my party’s National Organising Secretary of the Youth League. What is your professional training? I’m a certified Gender Equality and Equity Trainer. I also have training in Conflict Resolution, Understanding Elections and Civic Responsibility. I have undertaken a course in Women in Governance at the Global Platform by Action Aid International. I have experience working with organisations that promote women interests such as Akili Dada, the National Democratic Institute and the Kenya Women Holding and Youth Agenda What development agenda do you have for young people of Umoja? It largely revolves around legislation and the oft-overlooked civic education. I will conduct ‘youth evenings’ where we shall consult, share insight and listen to proposals on issues affecting our ward. This linkage between the County Assembly and the electorate will positively influence public service delivery. Has the current crop of young leaders performed to your expectations? There have been tremendous contributions and disappointments alike, we therefore cannot give a blanket condemnation. We need more young leaders, however, we need representatives with actual and specific roles as opposed to positions merely by virtue of youth. Have our woman leaders been able to articulate women and other social issues as they should? Frankly, we are in a wanting state just a few months to the general elections. The culture of dirty tricks, insults, violence, cultural and social stereotypes and a lack of goodwill has largely sabotaged women in their political participation. The new Constitution set aside at least one third of seats in elective and appointed positions for either gender. In theory, this should have opened floodgates for women to join politics. In practice though, there has been little progress. Do you believe that young leaders are better than the old guard? If the imaginative, entrepreneurial minds and vigour of the youth are blended with experience and guidance of the old guard, development and good governance in Kenya will be inevitable. 1st Timothy 4:12 says, let no one despise you for your youth; but set an example in speech, conduct, love, faith and purity. This verse defends maturity as responsibility, and not simply age.  ****** Faith Munan’ye, 21 years     Education: Procurement and Chain Supply School: Zetech University Aspirant: MCA, Kamenu, Thika Why did you decide to run for an elective seat? I have had an interest in politics since I was 13 years old. My focus has been the youth who feel left out in national development. By late 2016, I had made up my mind that I wanted to do this. I believe that the vigour and freshness of youth is what we need to develop Kenya and fight evils that plague us. Have you previously held a leadership position? I was elected Speaker of the Student Parliament during my first year at Zetech University. In developed nations, students are influential in national matters as they set the pace of a country. This was my overriding motivation when I founded the Private Universities and College Students Association of Kenya, last year. As president, I articulate the students’ issues with an eye on national development. We currently have 11 leaders on board representing 32 universities and colleges. What are some of the issues you would tackle first if you were elected? Hygiene and security are the primary concerns for the people of Kamenu. Due to overcrowding, we lack proper mechanisms of waste disposal. I will work closely with the County Government of Kiambu to address this. I will also seek ways to arrest the issue of insecurity by involving the relevant government agencies. Do you think Kenyans got a raw deal from the current crop of leaders? Over years, we have been given pledges that were never honoured. Unemployment for instance is still a reality. The older generation of politicians can’t identify with this problem, so we can’t expect anything worthwhile from them. Do you intend to pursue politics as a fulltime career? I’m inherently a politician who is passionate about social welfare. It’s a long held dream to become a career politician. Your parting shot… To all young women in politics, press on despite the setbacks you face, resilience pays handsomely.  