Former Deputy Prime Minister Musalia Mudavadi’s Amani National Congress party has resolved to field candidates for all elective seats, including the presidency. The party has also resolved to back the National Supper Alliance (Nasa) presidential candidate, which its leader Musalia Mudavadi is eyeing, in the August General Election. It has authorised Mr Mudavadi and Secretary-General Godfrey Osotsi to execute the Nasa coalition agreement on behalf of the party. PARTY LISTS The resolutions were made during a two-day National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting in Elementaita between February 19 and February 21. Chaired by the ANC National Chairman Kelvin Lunani, the NEC also approved the establishment of the party's National Election Board (NEB) and Internal Dispute Resolution Committee. “It ( the National Election Board (NEB) set final deadline on registration of aspirants to March 10, 2017,” read a statement by Mr Osotsi. “The aspirants should ensure they have fully comply with the party eligibility requirements.” The deadline, he said, is dictated by the requirement of the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission that political parties submit party membership lists by March 19. NASA PLANS ANC’s resolution to field candidates for elective seats could, however, affect Nasa plans, which has been planning to carry out joint nominations in cosmopolitan areas like Nairobi. The opposition believes that it lost many seats during the last elections due to intra-coalition battles that rocked the Coalition for Reforms and Democracy. Nasa principals Raila Odinga (ODM), Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper), Moses Wetang’ula (Ford Kenya) and Mr Mudavadi are seeking the to fly the alliances’ flag for president. They constituted Nasa national co-ordination committee (NCC) to deliberate on the best choice to run for President under the alliance.  Editor's Note: An earlier version of this story had indicated that ANC had resolved to gun for all elective seats, except the presidency. It has since been brought to our attention that the party plans to field candidates at all levels, including the presidency. The error is regretted.  