Public universities have technically been shut for the past three weeks since lecturers and non-academic staff downed tools to push for higher pay. Two universities have been closed to avoid unrest by idle students. On Wednesday, students from the University of Nairobi held street protests to press for a quick resolution of the crisis. Lecturers are among the most poorly paid workers yet they play a critical role in developing human resource for the nation. For this reason, universities have ceased to be attractive employers. Instead, they have been losing highly qualified and experienced academicians, a majority trooping to countries that promise economic comfort and opportunities for intellectual growth. Dearth of top-notch academic staff, combined with inadequate facilities against an incredibly large student population account for the declining quality of university education. Reversing the decline necessitates a comprehensive review of the terms and conditions of service for university staff and other variables. However, a damning challenge is inadequate funding. For a long time, public universities depended on State capitation for their upkeep. But this is no longer tenable. State capitation has steadily contracted and whereas the universities thrived for a while on cash from self-sponsored students, that revenue stream has dwindled as options obtain in some of the efficiently run private institutions. Although universities should ensure their employees are properly remunerated, the reality is different. In the circumstance, a balance must be struck. So far, the government has offered some Sh10 billion to the universities to work out a new pay package for the staff. On Friday, joint technical committees of the universities and the unions – for academics and non-teaching staff – will meet to discuss the figures and allocations. Clearly, the global figure may not translate into the actuals the staff had petitioned for, but it is a good start and a show of goodwill. We urge sobriety in the discussions so that the parties can arrive at a consensus to end the strike.  