The Council of Governors has welcomed Samuel Wamathai as their newest member and is ready to work with him in making devolution successful. Speaking after Mr Wamathai was sworn in as Nyeri governor, Mr Peter Munya, the chairman, said his colleagues would support him until the end his tenure. Mr Wamathai took oath of office of Monday morning in a ceremony presided over by Justice Jarius Ngaah. He said he would effectively executive his duties without fear. "I demand total honesty and integrity from everyone working in the county. I will not tolerate acts of corruption and dishonesty," Mr Wamathai said. READ: Wamathai takes over in Nyeri - VIDEO The seat fell vacant following the death of Nderitu Gachagua who died in a London hospital after suffering from pancreatic cancer. Mr Munya, the Meru govvernor, commended the former deputy governor for his efforts to unite the residents while Mr Gachagua was away. "Mr Wamathai was able to hold the county together while our brother was ill. Everyone will agree with me that if someone else was holding that office, things would not have ended the way they did," he said. Mr Munya however lashed out at MCAs over attempts to impeach the governor when he was sick. "It was wrong for the MCAs to take advantage of such a situation and disrupt county operations," he said. He urged the MCAs to support Ambassador Wamathai. BLAME GAME But Assembly Speaker David Mugo clarified saying the differences between the MCAs and Mr Gachagua were not personal, that they emanated from their mandate to safeguard the locals' interests. Nonetheless, Mr Mugo said Governor Wamathai will be accorded full support. At the same time, Senator Mutahi Kagwe defended himself against accusations of failing to speak out and deal with alleged graft in the region. "I have been accused of not oversighting the county. I want to make [a] confession right now. Whenever queries were made [regarding use of public funds] I made a follow up with the governor," he argued. Senator Kagwe said he held numerous consultations with the governor and his county officials on questions raised in an auditor general’s report. The legislator received acclaim from Rigathi Gachagua, the late governor’s brother, who said he supported and ensured the Gachagua administration ran smoothly. He instead blamed the members of the county assembly for perpetually impeding his late brother's work, for example by orchestrating his impeachment, which he said was the cause for slow development. "But if the MCAs and other leaders had not concentrated their war on the governor, the county would not be lagging behind. We only have them to blame," Mr Rigathi, the family spokesman, said.   Nyeri County boss was undergoing treatment at Royal Marsden Hospital.