Tens of livestock have died in areas hardest hit by the ravaging drought in Lamu County. Herders in Pangani, Lumshi, Chalaluma, Dide Waride and Moa villages of Witu in Lamu West reported to have lost over 100 cattle with the county Department of Veterinary Services recording only 40 cases of livestock deaths since the onset of the dry season. Lamu County pastoralist community spokesman, Mr Mohamed Dika, said since the onset of the drought in mid-2016, most of their livestock have been showing symptoms of fatigue, weakness and eventually they collapse and die. He said farmers are now fearing losing all their livestock if the current situation persists. The herders urged the national and county governments and other well-wishers to quickly intervene and distribute livestock feeds and drugs in order to help them deal with the situation. ANIMALS CONTINUE DYING “We have lost over 100 head of cattle between December and January. “As we speak, our animals continue dying. “The situation has even been worsened by the ongoing drought. We need urgent intervention or else we will lose all our livestock,” said Mr Dika. However, speaking to the Nation in his office on Wednesday, Lamu County Veterinary Officer Gichohi Mathenge said the biggest challenge faced by pastoralists in the region is the tsetse fly-transmitted trypanosomiasis disease which is causing more livestock deaths. Mr Mathenge said he has already sent a team of veterinary officers in all areas of Lamu hit by drought to vaccinate the animals. He said there has been an increase of tsetse flies owing to the drought which has greatly increased deaths of livestock besides the lack of animal feed and water. He urged herders to be on the lookout for any symptoms of illness in their animals and report the same to his office for prompt intervention. Lamu is among the 23 counties in the arid and semi-arid areas which are severely affected by the ongoing drought.   Locals urge government to establish grazing corridors for herders to end conflict.