MPs appear set for a fierce battle over the fate of Auditor-General Edward Ouko and the subject of a petition to remove him from office. Heated exchanges between Mr Ouko's defenders and accusers almost derailed the ongoing meeting of the Finance, Trade and Planning Committee on Tuesday morning. INTEREST Interest in the matter was evident earlier on when several Coalition of Reforms and Democracy MPs showed up a the meeting of the committee at Parliament Buildings in Nairobi. They used the provision allowing any MP to attend any committee meeting as friends of the committee. Among 'friends of the committee' present are Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi, Rongo MP Dalmas Otieno, Ruaraka MP Tom Kajwang, Fred Outa of Nyando and Timothy Bosire of Kitutu Masaba. Mr Ouko, accompanied by lawyer Otiende Amollo and senior staff from the Office of the Auditor General, also attended the meeting as an observer. He is scheduled to be questioned later in the day. POKED HOLES At the committee's meeting with Emmanuel Mwagonah, the visiting MPs were among those who poked holes in the assertions against Mr Ouko. Mr Wandayi described the petition as a fishing expedition. Mr Otieno would also later criticise Mr Mwagonah for basing his assertions against Mr Ouko on Article 229 while his petition only cited Article 254. Mr Ouko dismissed the petition in a letter to Parliament and questioned the speed with which National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi submitted it to the committee. INQUIRY “The petition was received by the office of the clerk on the February 14, 2017, and the Clerk and Speaker appear to have committed it to the committee without a preliminary inquiry as to whether it merits further consideration contrary to the law and the Standing Orders,” he says in his response. According to Mr Ouko, the petition would have been reviewed for sufficiency and legality by the clerk and subjected to an advisory committee. He further argues that it contravenes the Petition to Parliament Act and the Standing Orders as it fails to indicate that the subject matter has been dealt with by the Director of Public Prosecutions. OMTATAH CASE “It is unfortunate that the National Assembly has now been dragged into a malicious and sustained campaign by a group of individuals who have previously sought the removal of the respondent from office through various complaints and which, after inquiry by relevant investigative agencies, exonerated the respondent,” he states. On Friday, activist Okiya Omtatah lodged a suit at the High Court seeking to shield Mr Ouko from the allegations contained in the petition filed by a Nairobi lawyer Emmanuel Mwagonah. Mr Omtatah argues Mr Ouko is a victim of a malicious campaign even though he is a diligent worker.   Auditor-General Edward Ouko to appear before National Assembly’s Finance Committee at 3pm.