It has been two weary months for the public health service since doctors went on strike to push for higher pay. All attempts to unlock the impasse have floundered. The latest was a drive spearheaded by Cotu (Central Organisation of Trade Unions) secretary-general Francis Atwoli and the Kenya National Commission for Human Rights. When all the doors for negotiation failed, Labour relations Judge Hellen Wasilwa yesterday committed leaders of the doctors’ union to a one-month civil jail for contempt of court — disobeying a court order to call off the strike as she had earlier directed. Admittedly, due process was followed, but from a practical point of view, this has not resolved the problem. But by jailing the union leaders, the negotiation collapses as there are no other legally recognised officials to lead the talks. And that means the strike will continue. In fact, the striking doctors have now added the release of their officials to their demands. If the union leaders serve the full sentence, the court will have expended all its ammunition and will hence be badly placed to arbitrate in subsequent disputes. It has created prisoners of conscience – and inadvertently made them heroes. The members have been emboldened and are ready for a prolonged face-off with their employers: the national and county governments. Clearly this does not help anybody. The solution is not purely legal. When Mr Atwoli pulled out of the negotiations, he stated that the problem is political and administrative and put the problem at the doorstep of President Uhuru Kenyatta, challenging him to rein in his top officials at the Health ministry — Cabinet Secretary Cleopas Mailu and Principal Secretary Nicholas Muraguri. We respect the judge’s ruling, as it serves to uphold the dignity of the court. However, we argue like in the Shakespearean tradition that justice must be tempered with mercy; more particularly, when the cold ring of a sentence does not serve to resolve a standoff. The government must resolve this stalemate unless it wants to declare public health dead.  