The Nairobi County government has ordered the immediate release of all boda bodas impounded while operating in the city centre and waived any fees incurred as storage charges. City Hall has also stopped court cases against the affected riders. Some of the motorbikes were impounded in November 2015 after Governor Evans Kidero banned the riders from operating within the city centre. But despite the order, the riders have been operating with impunity in the city, with most of them failing to adhere to the traffic rules, often using the wrong side of the roads. Speaking while releasing the motorbikes at City Hall, County Secretary Robert Ayisi said the decision came after the people pleaded with the governor saying that they had lost their livelihoods after their motorbikes were impounded. “This is a humanitarian call that has made Governor Evans Kidero to release the impounded boda bodas. “It is not politically driven - the riders depend on them for livelihood,” said Dr Ayisi. BAN STILL ON However, he reiterated that the ban on the boda bodas operating in the city centre is still on. He cautioned the riders against obstructing traffic, saying they should adhere to all the county by-laws and traffic rules. Speaking at the same forum, the chairman of the City Riders Sacco, Denis Ochieng, said the boda bodas were impounded after the county government failed to give them designated spaces within the city from where to operate. Mr Ochieng said some of the motorbikes have been in the custody of the county for over two years and had incurred charges amounting to over Sh100,000, which they could not raise. "Some of the riders went back to [their] rural areas after they failed to raise the cash. We have contacted them to [come and] pick them for free," said Mr Ochieng. He added that they will not be operating in the city centre but they will push City Hall to allocate them spaces in designated areas. He said some of the riders had taken loans to buy the motorcycles. County Inspectorate head Francis Munyambu said City Hall had 105 motorbikes in their custody.   Their grievances to Governor Kidero have not been addressed.