Cabinet Secretary Sicily Kariuki has asked leaders to stop politicising National Youth Service (NYS) projects for the youth. The Youth and Gender CS said it was wrong for critics of the programme to peddle lies that the Youth Empowerment Program (YEP) is “fake and scandalous.” “We have been portrayed badly for sponsoring a fake program. I want to make it clear that the programme is real and politicians should desist from politicizing it,” she said She accused politicians of sabotaging the projects in some areas by inciting the youth to protest, especially over pay. Mrs Kariuki defended the project saying it was meant to reduce unemployment and idleness among youth. “We will not allow politicians to mess up one of the most successful government programmes that has helped many young people across the country. “Many youth have been absorbed under the programme and are now in the government’s payroll. Their fortunes have changed completely,” she said. She urged the youth to shun leaders who attempt to incite them against the project. “Do not be swayed by politicians to hold strike and paralyze the activities because this is your future, follow the available chains of command to register your complaints whenever there is a problem,” she said. Mrs Kariuki was speaking on Saturday during the commissioning of the NYS project for Taveta Constituency, Taita Taveta County where she issued a Sh15 million cheque to support youth and women. Women Enterprise Fund received Sh9.2 million, Uwezo Fund Sh5.8 million and youth were given Sh3 million. She said the youth would be paid a total of Sh35million. Some 15 million will deducted and channelled to their savings accounts. Taveta MP Naomi Shaban urged the youth to take advantage of such projects. The youth will be tasked with de-silting water channels, clearing access roads, digging boreholes, vector control and maintaining cleanliness of the area. The CS was accompanied by Gender Affairs Principal Secretary Zainab Hussein and more than five MCAs.  