A Mombasa tycoon charged with fighting in public with the sons of slain drug baron Ibrahim Akasha and an Indian national is ill, a Mombasa court has been told. Lawyer Francis Kadima on Monday told Mombasa Principal Magistrate Francis Kyambia that Ali Badrudin Punjani fell ill on Sunday afternoon and was admitted to Pandya Memorial Hospital. Mr Kadima produced a medical treatment sheet in court stating that Mr Punjani was unable to attend his trial due to sickness. “The accused is absent and unfortunately he has been taken ill and admitted at Pandya Hospital," said Mr Kadima, who appeared alongside lawyer Salim Galia. 2 WEEKS "We wish to inform the honourable court to kindly defer the case until another time.” The lawyer said his client, a wealthy and influential businessman, is ready to proceed with his case. Senior prosecuting counsel Eugene Wangila told the court that the Director of Public Prosecutions needed two weeks to investigate claims that Mr Punjani is sick and admitted to hospital. He also stated that the case facing Mr Punjani would be consolidated with the one of Baktash Akasha, Ibrahim Akasha and Indian national Vijaygiri Goswami, who have since be extradited to the US. “We would be seeking two weeks in view of investigations pursuant to the letter we have just been served (medical report),"he said. THE FIGHT "We also seek another two weeks so that I can address the court on the way forward in the other case that we intend to consolidate with this one,” added Mr Wangila." Another son of the late Ibrahim Akasha, Abdulsalam Akasha, is also charged in the case. The prosecution said Mr Punjani, jointly with others not in court, fought at Rahian Bar and Restaurant in Mombasa on January 1. Mr Punjani, the Akashas and Mr Goswami, who were represented by lawyer Cliff Ombeta, were each released on Sh20, 000 cash bail. The accused was charged in privacy on January 1 to avoid being photographed by journalists.   Ali Badrudin Punjani fought at a pub in Mombasa on January 1, according to the prosecutor.