As expected, Homeboyz and Resolution Impala Saracens chalked up bonus points victories in their Kenya Cup outings on Saturday.Homeboyz rallied from behind to touch down five times and beat host Blak Blad 32-16 at Kenyatta University.Error-strewn Impala led 12-0 at the break before edging out Nondescripts 24-7 to also retain Samson Odhiambo Memorial trophy at RFUEA ground. The victory by the Deejays saw them scale one place to third in the league table with 47 points.Impala improved their tally to 45 points but stayed fifth behind champions Kabras Sugar, who also have same points but are ahead on superior points difference.Both Homeboyz and Impala have nine wins and three losses as the battle for the top six play-offs intensify.The two were the only Kenya Cup matches played yesterday, having been postponed last year following the deaths of players Ogeto Gecheo (Nondies) and Andrew Wekesa (Homeboyz).Levy Amunga gave Blak Blad the lead with a try but left wing Alvin Otieno and full-back Nelson Sangura hit back for Homeboyz with a try each. Fly-half Michael Wanjala slotted over a penalty to give Homeboyz a 13-5 lead at the break.Substitute Cyprian Kuto scored a brace of tries in the second half while outside centre Jeff Oluoch managed a try as Wanjala and Pamy Onyango converted one try each to wrap up the victory for Homeboyz. Amunga completed his double for Blak Blad in addition to two penalties but all was in vain for the varsity students.Centre Samuel Motari and hooker Kelvins Karani crossed once each for Impala in the first half while Mohammed Omollo made one conversion to hand Impala a 12-0 lead at the break. Centre Anthony Nyandigisi and winger Leon Adongo would finish it off for the Sarries with a try apiece but not before Robin Kiplangat converted one. We had so many errors which we should work on them if we are to win our next matches that are crucial to our top six play-off, said Impala director of coaching Fred Ollows. We had many breaks and overlaps but we blew up our chances. Impala will face Nakuru in their next match on Saturday away at Nakuru Athletic Club and thereafter Kenya Commercial Bank at home. Both opponents have some heavy packs hence no room for minor errors especially at breakdowns and set-pieces, said Ollows. email print email print Regional chief orders the removal of containers in Sh5 billion Health scandal from NYS Miritini Hundreds of officers with shoot-to-kill order now head to Ng&#039;elecha as operation gains steam.