Kenya has earned the dubious distinction of being a safe haven for trade in illicit drugs. The Coast is particularly notorious for drug trafficking. Unfortunately, the drug dealers are known but are hardly seized and punished. This week, President Uhuru Kenyatta put the barons on notice. We agree that quick and decisive actions must be taken to rein in these lords of destruction. But this is not the first time the President is making such a declaration. Two years ago, he presided over the destruction of a drug ship off the coast of Mombasa in a symbolic gesture to show Kenya’s outrage at the trade. But that did not stop more ship-loads of illegal drugs arriving at our shores. At another time, he directed the campaigns at the consumers, mobilising the provincial administration to flush out the dealers and round up drug addicts and take them for rehabilitation. But those were spasmodic reactions, which never lasted. The new presidential directive comes in the wake of seizure of two sons of slain drug baron Ibrahim Akasha and two foreigners, who are wanted in the US to face charges of illicit drug trafficking. But more worrying, a review of the cases of the suspects reveal a ruthless and well-oiled network that incorporates the Judiciary, the police, the provincial administration and politicians; an illustration of how deep the cartels and networks operate. Trade in illicit drugs is giving Kenya a bad name. In itself, the trade has far-reaching ramifications. Ease of access lures many to the stuff, especially the youngsters, and with tragic consequences. Even more worrying, it ensnares everyone and creates what can be referred to as state capture; where everyone is locked in and nobody dares raise the cudgels against it. The fight against drugs is an urgent imperative and the starting point is to flush out its high priests and as well target the trade facilitators and consumers. The war must be tactful, consistent and strategic so that we can rid the country of the drug menace.  