In this interactive series, we invite our readers to exclusively send in questions to select public figures. Answers will be published in the next print and online editions. This week, Transport Principal Secretary Irungu Nyakera responds to your questions: Mr PS, what inspired you to leave the corporate world which is better paying and has less public scrutiny to join public service which is quite hectic, very demanding and pays less? Esther Juma, Roysambu I have nurtured an ambition to serve Kenya in various capacities since my days in high school at Starehe Boys’ Centre. Our director, Dr Geoffrey Griffin, instilled in me the passion for serving the public as a duty without the expectation of commensurate reward in return. Therefore, once the opportunity arose to serve as PS, it was only natural for me to accept it willingly without putting the remuneration associated with the position as a condition. Can you please explain why there is still indiscipline in the transport sector despite the creation of the National Transport and Safety Authority among other institutions? Andrew Maranga Ratemo, Kisii There are continued efforts to bring order to the transport sector and I should stress that this is a process rather than an event. We have so far, through the NTSA, managed to organise the sector under Saccos to allow for self-regulation and this is bearing fruit. It is instilling self-discipline which reduces the need for interventions by the government. This is in addition to other programmes which include awareness campaigns as well as deterrence measures such as inspection of motor vehicles and enhancement of order on our roads. In addition to this, the Traffic Act has also been revised and fines gazetted awaiting implementation to ensure road offenders are dealt with instantly. Probox passenger service vehicles continue to speed besides carrying excess passengers and goods. What is your ministry doing to ensure that these vehicles adhere to road rules and safety? Bonny Mutai, Londiani Probox vehicles are not allowed by law to operate as public transport vehicles therefore when they carry passengers and goods, they are doing it illegally. NTSA and the traffic police have continued to ensure adherence to traffic rules by enforcing speed limits on various sections of our roads. The NTSA has further invested in speed guns to detect all speeding motorists who are then punished in accordance with the provisions of the law. Sir, have you ever driven on an unmarked road, especially at night? If so what is your experience? What is your ministry doing to ensure all tarmacked roads are clearly marked to enhance safe driving? Makoba Kizito, Zimmerman, Nairobi. Unfortunately, I have driven on unmarked roads. However, the government is currently conducting road audits aimed at assessing the extent to which the roads meet safety standards and this includes ensuring that they are properly marked. So far, a number of roads have been identified and the relevant agencies are erecting road signs and markings geared towards meeting appropriate road safety standards. Sir, on watching the Bribery Batallion feature on NTV, I realised most of those involved were police officers who are under the Interior Ministry yet the whole saga rotates around transport. What is your take on corruption on our roads? Oluchina Antony, Eldoret It is true that corruption on the roads compromises road safety and must be vigorously deterred. The ministry is doing its part in conjunction with the relevant agencies. In this regard, we are currently at an advanced stage to introduce an instant fine system and profiling of offenders as an immediate solution to corruption. Instant fines paid electronically should work towards facilitating retribution by offenders without delay or bottlenecks while profiling of offenders will enable a targeted approach to mitigation of the triggers of offences and this should reduce the need for interventions on the roads by the relevant agencies.   Pedestrians form the majority of road accident victims due to lack of signage and civic education. What measures are you taking to reduce the number of accidents involving pedestrians? Jerry Kenyansa The Ministry through the NTSA has various programmes targeted at saving lives on our roads, more so those of pedestrians who, more often, are innocent victims of speeding drivers. These measures include continuously engaging the public through public education and campaigns to promote use of footbridges as opposed to crossing busy highways as well as use of designated crossing points. Another measure has been restricting speed in areas with the highest pedestrian traffic. We are also fortunate that we have a sister State Department concerned with road construction that has assisted in promoting the safety of pedestrians through putting up of speed bumps in certain areas. These measures have had a significant impact on reducing fatalities. A keen observer can easily conclude that your ministry is driven by reactionary measures in putting in place policies to remedy challenges. Tragic road accidents in the past, for example, seem to have awakened the ministry into taking measures that some think are too little too late. What is your take on this? Komen Moris, Eldoret I can assure you that all departments and agencies under the ministry continuously work closely to promote road safety. For example, the agencies in charge of development of the infrastructure under the State Department of Infrastructure in partnership with the NTSA undertake regular road audits which identify black-spots and propose and implement mitigation measures such as the erection of speed bumps while the NTSA runs sustained awareness campaigns aimed at road users. This is continuous rather than adhoc or reactionary and while tragic road accidents require immediate investigation followed by requisite interventions, they are by no means the only triggers of activity at the ministry. If you ask any matatu operator, they will tell you they find it easier to work with the police than NTSA officers. Reason? The police ask for lower bribes than their NTSA counterparts. Are you aware of this? Benard Nyang’ondi, Mombasa In a bid to deal with corruption on our roads, NTSA and the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) have entered into a Memorandum of Understanding that will provide a collaborative approach to the issue of corruption. Over the past few months a lot of strides have been made and a number of motorists have been arrested trying to bribe NTSA officials. I encourage the public to report bribery incidents to EACC so that prompt action can be taken. Sir, can the functions of the traffic department be given to NTSA after the required legal changes in Parliament since all the police do is collect bribes? Vincent, Siaya County The traffic department and NTSA complement each other’s efforts in ensuring safety on our roads. The police continue to be crucial in the management of traffic and promotion of road safety. NTSA, on the other hand, is dedicated to ensuring road safety and it runs many programmes in partnership with the traffic department towards saving lives and ensuring order on our roads.   Why is Kenya Airways allowed to charge exorbitant prices, especially on domestic routes, and will the same pricing model be adopted when the Standard Gauge Railway starts operating? Cedric Lumosi It is true that we have received several complaints from the public as well as stakeholders on the cost of air tickets on KQ. I can inform you that KQ is currently working to harmonise the prices. It is, however, of note that KQ is in a competitive market and, as a result, pricing will be based solely on the careful consideration of market forces. On price comparison, SGR is a public asset funded on public debt and pricing will therefore be based on government objectives to run economically and sustainably in consideration of market forces as well as taking on board stakeholder input. Construction of the second phase of the SGR from Nairobi to Naivasha has begun yet those whose land the project has passed through have not been compensated. Why? Jordan Kipkorir Land acquisition has not yet begun, a meeting is scheduled with National Land Commission who will conduct the exercise of land acquisition and this will follow the law. Is it a fact that China Road and Bridge Corporation will complete the SGR project way ahead of schedule? Alex Muli, Loitokitok Yes, it will be 18 months ahead of schedule. Significant progress has been made since commencement. The construction of sub-grade, bridge, culverts and main line track-laying is nearly complete. READ: 50 SGR locomotives set to arrive by May READ: How Mombasa port will look in era of SGR, wider roads The installation of signalling, communication, electricity systems and station building has come to an end. The preparation for full railway operation is under way and it is expected that the railway will start trial operations from June this year. What’s the difference between the two firms involved in the SGR: China Road and Bridge Corporation and the China Communications Construction Company? Hope Kalekye China Communications Construction Company (CCCC) is a world leading road, bridge and railway design and construction enterprise, China’s largest international project contractor. China Road and Bridge Corporation (CRBC) is a wholly-owned subsidiary of CCCC. How many indigenous companies have won supply contracts with the Chinese company working on the SGR project? Joel Kiarie, Nairobi CCCC and CRBC have attached great importance to the implementation of local content and actively involved in the participation of local suppliers and sub-contractors. Under the Kenya Railways Corporation, they have taken concrete actions to engage local partners to the maximum to participate in the construction of the Mombasa-Nairobi SGR project so as to stimulate the development of associated industries in Kenya. All the materials, equipment, machinery and services available in the Kenya market will be procured locally. So far CRBC have already signed cooperation agreements with 950 local material and equipment suppliers and service providers, and developed a cooperative relationship with 249 local sub-contractors. Are you satisfied with the work being done on the SGR? Rebecca Kulabi, Kakamega Very much so. At present, the civil works, station building works, track laying and girder erecting works are all ahead of schedule and we are confident that CRBC will deliver a quality railway connecting Mombasa and Nairobi to the government and people of Kenya to contribute to the early realisation of Kenya’s Vision 2030.   Are there plans to link the SGR across East Africa and is it true that Tanzania is building a similar railway at a fraction of the cost using Turkish technology? Paul Gesimba, Nairobi Yes, the SGR master plan is an agreed framework by the East Africa region. All countries will have the same gauge which is Standard Gauge Railway (1435mm). On Cost, this cannot be confirmed because works have not yet commenced and the project is still at inception stage. Comparisons can only be made once the project starts. Considering the stations on the route and the time spent to drop and pick up passengers, is it realistic to say that the SGR trains will take four hours between Nairobi and Mombasa? Martin Muia, Mombasa Yes, the intercity train, which will only stop at Mtito Andei intermediate station, will take 4-5 hours to allow for passage of the train moving in the same or opposite direction. Additionally SGR will also operate a county train that will stop at all seven intermediate stations for a maximum of five minutes. Are you aware that the SGR project is not benefiting local contractors who were promised 70 per cent supply? Njunge Ndugire, Nairobi The promise was actually 40 per cent and not 70 per cent. We are working towards this and have so far achieved 34 per cent amounting to approximately Sh80 billion. We have gone further and signed an addendum to guarantee 40 per cent of local content under phase 2A of the project which has commenced. Preference has and will continue to be given to the locals. For more questions and answers go to www.nation.co.ke  