BURNLEY Goalscorer Sean Raggett summed up as "mad and crazy" his side Lincoln becoming the first non league team in over a century to reach the FA Cup quarter-finals after ousting Premier League side Burnley 1-0 on Saturday. The 23-year-old central defender — who headed home in the 89th minute — said he and his team-mates had always believed they were capable of adding Burnley to the scalps of second tier duo Ipswich and Brighton on their extraordinary Cup run. "I'm lost for words, it's mad, I can't believe it," he told BT Sport. "The fans were amazing, all through the game. "They're a top quality side, drew with Chelsea last week, it's amazing. "Belief? Massively, we didn't come to draw, we came to win the game. "Crazy, a non-league side in the quarter-finals in modern football, it's unheard of." Lincoln manager Danny Cowley — whose brother Nicky is his assistant manager — said the odds had worked in their favour. "We said it was a one in a 100 chance and thankfully we got that opportunity," he told BT Sport. "The last eight of the FA Cup sounds pretty good. We work hard on our corners and our free-kicks and we are mightily proud of the players," added Cowley, whose side are on course for promotion into the English Football League as they top the National League. Nicky Cowley, who along with his brother quit their fulltime jobs in the education system last year to focus on football, said the essential ingredient was to believe beating a top tier side was possible no matter how modest ones resources were. "It is a fantastic day," Cowley told BT Sport. "You have to believe and dream big, we had fantastic results against Oldham, Ipswich and Brighton but coming to a Premier League ground was a new challenge and it is unbelievable. "From the view we had it was difficult to see if it was over the line and you are just willing the referee to point to the centre circle and it was a great moment when it happened. "We are a humble down to earth group," added Cowley, who was due to drive him and Danny across country to watch National League side North Ferriby play as Lincoln are due to play them on Tuesday. Barrel-chested striker Matt Rhead, whose physical presence caused the Burnley defence problems throughout the match, said they had matched their opponents in every area. "It is unbelievable. When we started back in October it was a dream," said the 32-year-old, who has trawled the non league arena throughout his career taking in the likes of Norton United and Corby. "I enjoyed every minute of it. The lads have done unbelievable. "We've got a good squad here and we believe we can beat anyone. We continue to beat teams. "It is something you dream of as a kid. We went toe-to-toe with a Premier League team. We are confident if we set up as we have today we can beat anyone."   Lincoln City stunned Burnley 1-0 on Saturday to claim one of the biggest upsets in the history of the FA Cup.