Yaoundé, Cameroon It was a long night for Cameroon's Indomitable Lions' fans following the team’s 2-1 victory over Egypt at the final of the 2017 Africa Cup of Nations final in Libreville on Sunday. At about midnight after the victory on Sunday, fans in the Cameroon capital Yaounde went haywire with some on taxi tops, others on moto bikes blowing vuvuzelas. Drinking spots and entertainment joints were ablaze with ear-piecing music as celebrations went late into the night.   “We can do anything now that the Lions won the trophy. We have not won this tournament for a long time now. We have to celebrate,” a fan told the Daily Nation Sport as he and others were soaked in alcohol. The Indomitable Lions denied an eighth title for the Pharaohs at the Stade de L’Amitie to claim a fifth continental crown and the first since 2002. “We are going to drink here till tomorrow to celebrate this victory,” another fan of the team told said amidst deafening music at an entertainment joint Yaounde after the victory. Vincent Aboubakar’s 88th minute goal gave the rejuvenated Lions the victory after Nicholas Nkoulou’s 58th minute header cancelled Egypt's first-half lead by Arsenal's Mohammed Elneny.   Defender Nkoulou came into the game in the 30th minute to replace injured Adolphe Teikeu while forward Aboubakar was introduced at the start of the second half in place of Robert Ndip Tambe. “We are going to organise a heroic reception for the players. We are proud of them and the coach…”, Eric Ondigui, president of a fan club said as he and his group moved around the Ahmadou Ahidjo stadium in Yaounde chanting victory songs after the match. Beside the trophy, Cameroon goalkeeper, Fabrice Ondoua was voted best goalkeeper of the tournament, while Christian Bassogog who was stretchered out of the field a few seconds to the end of the final game emerged as player of the tournament. Specially designed Lions jerseys all bearing number 17 were handy and the team wore it immediately after they emerged champions, a dedication to Marc Vivien Foe, the Indomitable Lions midfielder who died during a match at the 2003 FIFA Confederations Cup.   He was part of the squad that won the last AFCON crown in 2002. Also visible in front of the lions “Champions” shirts is the statement “Forever Cameroon”, a message obviously directed to English-speaking Cameroonians who have been protesting against marginalisation in the predominantly French speaking but constitutionally bilingual country. It is obvious that the government will build on the overflow of joy from the victory to preach national unity. Social media has also been flooded with mostly mockery messages to eight Cameroon stars among them Joel Matip, Andre Onana, Ndy Assembe, Allan Nyom, and Choupo Moting who refused coach Hugo Broos’s call-up for the tournament. The return of the team to Yaounde on Monday will likely be a great event in the Central African nation.   Cameroon Communication Minister, Issa Tcchiroma Bakary has said the government has provided buses to transport journalists wishing to cover the arrival of the Lions at the Nsimalen International airport. The government spokesperson had earlier appealed for special focus from media due to Lions’ already brilliant performance prior to the finals of the competition. President Paul Biya is likely to declare a public holiday throughout the country to celebrate the outstanding performance of the team that was rated by many as the underdogs of the tournament.   Cameroon qualify automatically as hosts.