Ambassador Samuel Wamathai has been sworn in as the new Nyeri governor. Mr Wamathai, the former deputy county boss, on Monday took the oath of office at the county headquarters with a pledge to fight corruption. HONESTY The swearing-in, presided over by Resident Judge Jarius Ngaah, is likely to heighten anxiety on the composition of a new Cabinet. Speaking moments after the ceremony, Mr Wamathai said he would effectively executive his duties without fear. "I demand total honesty and integrity from everyone working in the county," he said. "I will not tolerate acts of corruption and dishonesty." County Secretary Alice Wachira received the new county first lady Leah Njoki who had never been in the public limelight. MPS KEEP OFF Most Nyeri MPs, however, snubbed the event with only Tetu MP Ndung'u Gethenji present. The lawmaker said he was representing the rest at the event attended by at least 12 members of the county assembly, led by their Speaker David Mugo. Mr Mugo said the assembly would support the new governor. He said the MCAs differences with Mr Gachagua were not personal and the assembly was only doing its job. Chairman of the Council of Governor Peter Munya was the only county boss present. FELL VANCANT Hundreds of Nyeri residents also gathered at the Nyeri county headquarters for the swearing-in. The seat fell vacant following the death of Nderitu Gachagua in a London hospital on Friday. Relatives of the late governor were represented by his younger brother Rigathi Gachagua. The family promised to fully support the incoming governor noting that he had been a pillar of strength for the family. “The incoming governor has been a blessing to the county because, were it not for him, when the governor had been indisposed the county would have ground to a halt,” said Mr Rigathi, the family spokesman. “He deserves the support.” MINISTERS JITTERY But a law sending the ministers home has caused jitters among the late governor’s appointees as they wait for his successor to effect changes. Mr Rigathi Gachagua on Sunday said his extended family would fully support the new county boss, noting that its political machinery was at his disposal. “The incoming governor has been a blessing to the county because, were it not for him, when the governor had been indisposed the county would have ground to a halt,” said Mr Rigathi. “He deserves the support.” He described Mr Wamathai, a former diplomat, as a pillar of strength for the late governor, noting that he had a duty to achieve the agenda that they set when they took office. PRIVATE JET On burial arrangements, Mr Rigathi said plans to have Gachagua’s body flown to Kenya were under way. If all goes well and the paper work is successful, the body will arrive in the country on Thursday at 5am, he said. Mr Rigathi revealed that when his brother’s health deteriorated while in hospital, the family had begun plans to fly him back to the country. “We want to bring him but doctors at the airline were of the view that he was a little bit weak and felt that he might not make it,” said Mr Rigathi. “We were in the process of getting a private jet but that never came to be.” The family said they had received support from Foreign Affairs Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohammed and Kenya’s High Commissioner to the United Kingdom Lazarus Ombai Amayo in efforts to bring the body home. STATE BURIAL? Several governors will accompany the body from London. The burial date is also yet to be set, pending consultations between the family and the Office of the President, but prayers will commence at All Saints Cathedral in Nairobi on Tuesday. Being the first governor to die in office, it was not clear if Gachagua will be accorded a state burial, the family said. Meanwhile, Mr Rigathi extended an olive branch to Gachagua’s critics, saying: “We have nothing against those who fought him and we forgive them.”   Deputy Governor Samuel Wamathai says he is ready to fill Mr Gachagua's shoes.