There was a time, long gone, when a career in beauty was the preserve of women. Today, more and more young men are bypassing professions that have been traditionally associated with their gender, choosing beauty instead, and making a satisfying living in this lucrative industry. If you have ever considered or are considering a career in beauty, or are simply curious about what working in the beauty industry is like for men, these four gentlemen’s experiences will answer all your questions. Barington Kangwana AGE: 28 years Occupation: Body piercing Education: Architecture (University of Nairobi) and International Relations (USIU- Africa) Barry Tusker Tattoos Studio and Piercing, Westlands   Augmented looks come with a high price, and sometimes pain too. For some, it is not splendour until specific parts of their body are adorned with jewellery. What does body piercing involve? It is a surgical incision which involves inserting jewellery into various parts of the body, including the lip, tongue, nose, ear and navel. Where did you learn body-piercing techniques and what is your specialisation? I learned what I do as a pastime from a tattoo studio in Atlanta, Georgia, during my stay in the US. I fell in love with the art because of its uniqueness. When I returned to Kenya, I took it as my career. I pierce all body parts, whatever the client’s preference is. What was your first piercing job like? I was very nervous. I knew I was inducing pain on the client. The sight of blood unnerved me. It was also weird to see a stranger’s nudity – some clients want to be pierced in some very intimate areas. I kept glancing at the client to register her expression as the needle went through her flesh. It was thankfully successful. What is your relationship with female clients like? It is mostly cordial. I get referrals from people I have worked on, so I would say that ours is a fruitful working relationship. I keep it at a strictly professional dimension despite the sometimes veiled advances. You see your clients in various states of undress, how do you maintain your professionalism? I try as much as possible to see a client as just that, a client. Utmost dignity is key in this job. If you have self-respect, and respect for others, you need not struggle with anything. What lessons have you drawn from your customers? In business, trust matters more than people think. In a personal engagement like piercing, a good reputation is important. I’ve come to appreciate that the way you handle your customers determines your business image, and ultimately your growth in that industry. Does this job satisfy you? I enjoy what I do. The job is a handsome income earner too, and caters for all my financial needs. What setbacks do you face in your job? In addition to the generic challenges that all businesses face, I have had clients who have tried to cross the boundaries that I draw with all clients. Has anyone ever questioned you about your sexuality; owing to the nature of your job? Yes. Most people who don’t know me well think I’m not straight. The piercings on my body kind of feed this suspicion too. Do you have a spouse or girlfriend? If so, what does she feel about what you do? I’m both lucky and grateful to have a girlfriend who understands the sensitive nature of my work and readily supports me. Do you ever receive tips from clients? Tips are a common feature in most service jobs. Piercing is no exception. I get tips all the time, which indicates appreciation of my work. Every job requires motivation. ______ Kennedy Kiprop Age: 28 years Occupation: Nail artist Company: Kips Nail Beauty   How long have you been a nail artist? Briefly describe your professional journey… Finesse as an artist is the product of constant practice. The more you do what you do, the better you become. When I started out, I would blunder a lot. I could not tell what nail design was suitable for what type of nails. Today however, I perform my work with lots of ease and confidence. This is my fourth year in this job. What makes you stand out in what you do? Quality customer service is at the heart of any successful business undertaking. Most women are sensitive, very particular, which necessitates a great deal of wisdom while handling them. Most importantly though, maintaining your relationship with them strictly at a professional level is necessary for a continued and fruitful engagement. What is it like working with mostly female clients? I was a barber before I took up nail art. Men are a relatively quiet lot. Women however are very chatty. They will dissect every discourse, however awkward, as you attend to them. Sometimes you will not care for the subject, but since she is your customer, you have to patiently hear her out. There must be challenges that come with this job… Sometimes I work for long hours. Some clients will even call me during my off days, and when they do, I can’t fail them, so I often forfeit my comfort to attend to them. Others want services on credit. And girlfriends will often ask for free services. Has your daily interaction with women impacted on your personality? Yes. I am a better listener than I was. I listen more and talk less, unlike before. Women appreciate men who listen to them, take it from me. Does your girlfriend approve of your job? A former girlfriend left me because she could not stomach my long working hours. She also doubted my fidelity. My girlfriend is more receptive and visits me at work often - she has embraced what I do. How did your family react when you told them you wanted to work in the beauty industry? My mother has no objection as long as I am able to fend for myself. There have been instances of ridicule though, where some have wondered whether this is the best I could have done for myself. There are so many misconceptions about men who work as beauticians… True. Most people assume men beauticians are gay, or people who can’t keep serious relationships. There are also those who think we are not well educated. Sometimes when you mention what you do, people stop taking you seriously, however, I pay absolutely no attention to what people say or think about me, as long as it doesn’t hurt my job. It is said that men who work as  beauticians are more likely to cheat on their significant others than those in other jobs. How true is this claim? Foremost, cheating is a personal decision. I have many married friends in this profession, and all are faithful to their spouses. Anyone can cheat, their career notwithstanding. _________  Dan Ngigi Age: 22 years Specialisation: Loctician Salon: Classic Dreadlocks Makeover, Kahawa West   Only a little over a decade ago, dreadlocks were considered a trend for the off-grid, rebellious personalities. Sporting locks was done for self-expression, to conform to the Rastafari movement, or to rebel against other ways of life. Most places of work prohibited dreadlocks. That was then. The culture of wearing locks has gained traction in the last couple of years, with many people now freely wearing them, even to places of work, without fear of stigmatisation. How do you relate to your clients? My relationship with most of my clients is casual. We can have a hearty chat and even joke as I attend to them, but that is where our relationship ends. Would you say that you know women better than you did before you got into this career? I will tell you what I have learnt, that women are easier to work with than men, however, they are very emotional. A small misstep riles them. If you understand their needs and treat them with consideration, you will be fine. Would you still choose this job given another chance? I can’t possibly think of anything else. And, I would gladly choose doing what I do. This is what I am passionate about. What challenges come with your job? Working in beauty is tougher than most people believe. Starting with girlfriends who want you to do their locks for free, to those who want it done on credit. The last thing you want to do is disappoint them, but then you have bills to pay. This job requires a strong personality, otherwise you will fail. Do you believe that men make the best beauty specialists? Naturally, men are attracted to good-looking and therefore confident women, and so we in this industry do our job whole-heartedly. Does this therefore make us the best in this field? You tell me. How do you cope with the stereotypes associated with the beauty industry? By focusing on my job and being deaf to all negative energy. What do your family and friends think about what you do? I do not know for sure, what I do know is that this is my job, and I wouldn’t trade it for any other job. Between men and women, who are the best payers? If a woman is impressed with how you make them look, their purse strings unknot quite freely, unlike men clients who often negotiate service fees. What do you love most about dreadlocks? Locks are easily manageable. With proper care, they stay in good shape and outlast regular hair styles. You only need to find the right stylist and use quality products. What’s your mojo in this job? Creativity mostly. Women fancy inventive styles, and so I experiment a lot. _________  John Mbuki Age: 24 years Education: Ashley’s Academy Occupation: Masseur Ashleys Coiffure and Spa, Two Rivers Mall   Why massage therapy? My training equipped me with nearly all the aspects of beauty. I am an expert in makeup, facials, acrylics and massage. I perform all these, but I’m much more at home doing aromatherapy, reflexology, deep tissue, hot stone and Swedish massages. This is currently my third year in practice. Who are your regular clients? Men or women? Mainly female clients. Massage is both a physical and psychological exercise. Women clients prefer male massage therapists, but there are of course those that do not mind the practitioner as long as they do a good job. Has any of your clients ever made overtures at you? Such incidences are common in this type of business. As a professional, I say that it is better to lose a client than hurt the reputation of the business. Massage and prostitution are often mentioned in the same breath in Kenya – what can you say about this? I would say that for majority of Kenyans, the line between the two is very much dissolved. Over the last few years however, this practice has gained popularity. There are many professional massage parlours all over the country, meaning that this long-standing stereotype is dissipating. My family knows that I am a beauty expert, and are not bothered by what I do. This is a job like any other. How did your male friends react to what you do? Some were initially skeptical about my job and my personality, but over time, they came to appreciate what I do as just another source of income. What qualities have enabled you to succeed in this job? First, by exercising utmost professionalism, I have retained most of my clients while getting new contacts. Secondly, I keep abreast of the trends in the industry – there are constantly new techniques coming up, better brands of massage oils and even modes of lighting, all which help to realise maximum relaxation to my clients. This way, I have been able to stay ahead of the competition. If you were to choose again, would you still choose this job? Having practiced for three years and gained so much aptitude in the job, it would be a huge waste to start all over again. I am thoroughly content working as a masseur. ******  Kenya’s beauty market worth billions In an age when the media defines what is attractive, people are becoming increasingly conscious about their looks. According to some studies, attractive people are usually hired sooner, get promotions more quickly, and are paid more than their less-attractive coworkers. In the last decade, the number of beauty colleges has been on a sharp upward trajectory locally. Cosmetics multinationals continue to set up outlets in Kenya to tap into the rich nerve of potential. In 2015, KPMG estimated the worth of Kenya’s beauty and personal care products market at Sh100 billion. In a nutshell, beauty has grown into a behemoth of an industry, with a substantial contribution to the country’s economy. Some notable beauty and fashion institutions in Kenya include Ashley’s Beauty College, Vera Beauty College, Beauty Point College, Timeless Beauty College, and Royal Professional Beauty College. Cosmetology, barbering, nail technology, hairdressing, massage, fashion and creative arts are among the most common courses offered in these institutions. Accreditation includes certificates, diplomas and advanced diplomas. Despite the general assumption, beauty courses are not for the academically inferior. To be admitted to some beauty schools, a student has to attain a set minimum grade in their Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education exams. “Beauticians are as competent professionals as specialists in other fields. The training is thorough and lasts between two to three years with the option of advancement. Besides, exams offered in beauty are by accredited international bodies such as City and Guilds,” says Anne Kimemia, the manager, Ashleys Coiffure and Spa at Two Rivers Mall. According to Anne, top beauticians and barbers receive monthly earnings of between Sh200, 000 and Sh300, 000. While most beauty graduates end up working in beauty parlours while others start their own businesses, some are contracted by top hotels to attend to their patrons in their in-house spas. Beauty colleges in Kenya have also been at the forefront to promote modelling. Miss World Kenya 2016, Evelyn Njambi, sponsored by Ashley’s Kenya Ltd, was among the top five contestants globally in the pageant held in Maryland, in the US, in December last year.  