The Wiper party’s National Executive Council plans to meet today to discuss political differences between leader Kalonzo Musyoka and his key lieutenants. Differences between Mr Musyoka and some senators from Ukambani have dominated the headlines this week, raising concerns among supporters over the possible consequences of internal political wrangling. The bone of contention is a disagreement over the party’s stake in the Cord presidential nominations and alleged attempts by Mr Musyoka to impose candidates for various seats across the region. Officials attending the meeting will evaluate the party’s bid for the opposition presidential ticket, among other agendas. PARTY PRIMARIES According to party Executive Director Jared Siso, the meeting will discuss routine party business, including the forthcoming primaries planned for April. On Wednesday, eight Kitui MPs, led by National Assembly Minority Leader Francis Nyenze, endorsed Mr Musila's bid to unseat Governor Julius Malombe in the August elections. In an apparent reference to Mr Musyoka’s recent endorsement of Dr Malombe, a move they have opposed, the MPs declared that their resolve to jointly campaign for Mr Musila across the county remains intact. Making their stand on Mr Musila’s candidacy known ahead of today’s meeting is seen as an effort by the MPs to pre-empt any discussion on the matter and scuttle lobbying as the party prepares for primaries in two months. Mr Musyoka's backing of Dr Malombe and his appeal to Mr Musila to drop his candidacy did not go down well with the senator, who publicly told Mr Musyoka to concentrate on presidential campaigns and keep off county politics. Speaking on Thursday in Mwingi, the governor, however, dismissed the MPs as “agents” of the Jubilee government out to wreck the Wiper party from within and undermine Mr Musyoka’s presidential ambitions. DROP GUBERNATORIAL BID Dr Malombe angrily reacted to the MPs' move by asking Mr Musila, his main competitor, to heed the party leader’s counsel to drop his gubernatorial bid and instead focus on defending his Senate seat. “These MPs are not fighting me — the hard positions they have taken will only help Jubilee by messing our party leader’s candidacy in Cord,” said the governor. Mr Musyoka has since denied having endorsed anyone and distanced himself from claims that he preferred certain candidates for various seats across the region, saying his recent remarks were taken out of context. The Wiper leader also cautioned his party’s aspirants against invoking his name as they campaign to secure tickets for the next elections. County assembly members supporting Mr Musila, led by Mutomo Ward Representative Nzangi Mwanduka, said Dr Malombe is using a non-existent endorsement to shield himself from internal party competition. Mr Mwanduka accused their rival camp of being “sponsored” to continue blackmailing Senator Musila into abandoning the race. “To continue singing somebody was endorsed when the party leader himself has refuted making such approval shows the desperation on Dr Malombe’s part. This contest will only be decided at the ballot,” Mr Mwanduka said.   Any move Wiper leader makes has potential of re-affirming or weakening his grip.