Three universities could be shut down as the Education ministry is not willing to renew their licences. They submitted their request for renewal of their letter of interim authority but an official hinted at the possibility of their closure. “The institutions stand accused of academic malpractices,” said a source at the ministry who requested anonymity. Commission for University Education (CUE) chief executive David Some said reports on the universities had been presented to Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i. “We did our audit and submitted the reports and it is upon the CS to decide. We have made our case,” Prof Some told the Nation. A CUE audit report released last week indicated that some universities award degrees to students without following laid-down procedures, enrol unqualified students and offer courses not approved by the commission. According to the law, a university with a letter of interim authority is required to apply for renewal after four years. The renewal can only be granted by the minister on the recommendation of CUE. Universities shut down by the commission are Inoorero, Obama, Kenco and Landmark. The audit showed that some learners enrolled for degree courses scored D+ in their Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education examination while others graduated without supervisors’ approval. The minimum entry grade for degree courses in Kenya is a C+. The report said accelerated programmes were being abused. In some cases, it took just nine to 12 months for one to get a bachelor’s degree. PUBLISH ACADEMIC PAPERS The audit also revealed that only seven of 70 universities have been using 10 per cent of their resources to equip their libraries. It also showed that there was very little evidence of research in many institutions. “Out of the 66 universities that provided information on research fund allocation, only 19 complied with the law,” the report said. Universities are required to use at least two per cent of their operational expenditure on research. CUE said doctorate students would be required to publish at least two academic papers before graduating. At the same time, a joint working group has been formed to monitor implementation of the audit report. CUE chairman Chacha Nyaigotti-Chacha said the team would comprise chancellors, vice-chancellors and university council chairpersons. Prof Nyaigotti-Chacha said regulations and standards would be aligned with amendments to the Universities Act. “Stakeholders will work on the regulations within six months,” he said. He added that universities had 30 days to provide a road map on corrective measures they would take to implement the report.   Dr Matiang’i assured Kenyans that recommendations made in the report would be implemented.