There is a strong wind blowing in the education sector in Kenya today. Educationists, teachers, politicians, all kinds of experts, the woman, man, even child on the street, all and sundry, seem to agree that the current system of education isn’t preparing young Kenyans well enough for street life, the workplace or life in general. Everyone seems to have something negative to say about school today. But very few people are ready to pinpoint exactly where the problem is. Or even to offer better alternatives. There are claims that the subjects are just too many for young learners. Really? How is it that in the past, pupils studied even more subjects and still left school adjusted for life beyond the classroom? Others argue that there is too much learning and little play. Well, too many schools these days don’t even have playgrounds. Either they have been grabbed by ‘private developers’ or they have no grass or lack facilities for games. Some schools don’t even have adequate space for classrooms; leave alone where children can play. It is also argued that the learners aren’t prepared for the workplace. That the skills taught at school are incongruous with the demands of the workplace. The answer to these charges is that the Kenyan system of education has always generally been slow to adjust leading to use of outdated methods of teaching and knowledge. The child is merely a scapegoat who is also a victim of institutional failures. The charges against the Kenyan learner are made as if the questions of what knowledge to transmit in school, how to teach it and what to expect at the end of the school period is uniquely Kenyan. These aren’t problems specific to Kenya. They are universal. The kneejerk reactions and solutions that Kenyans prefer won’t just do. DIALOGUE WITH ADULTS These problems demand constant innovation of the curricula, more investment in the school infrastructure and more philosophical thinking about what society should expect of the young ones. JM Coetzee advises us in much similar terms in his latest novel, The Schooldays of Jesus (Harvill Secker, 2016; longlisted for The Man Booker Prize 2016). This is the story of a family of three – or say, four. There is Ines, her ‘husband’, Simon, their boy, David and a dog, Bolivar. The family is on the run from a city, Novilla, to a village town, Estrella. The adults are fugitives from the law because they had removed David from formal school for truancy and the parents would likely be prosecuted for denying him education. The three end up in Estrella and are accommodated on a farm where they find work as fruit pickers. In the end, the lady owners of the farm sponsor David to take lessons at the Academy of Dance. When the teacher at the School is murdered David is registered in a music school. All this happens after efforts to teach him privately and at home fails. In David, and his parents (who seemingly aren’t his ‘real’ parents), Coetzee raises several questions about the education or mis-education of children. The primary question is: can adults really know the right curriculum or knowledge that a child needs? This is an ancient conundrum. Philosophers have argued for long about what is the right curriculum. There has never been a final answer to the query. For instance, whereas David’s parents wish him to study, David is what some people may describe as a ‘problem child’ – he seems to always want to know why, what, how and for what should he study? But what is a problem child? Isn’t such a child only a ‘problem’ because adults are always unprepared for how children will grow up? David is difficult because he asks too many questions all the time. For him, an answer from an adult is simply an invitation to ask another question. The problem for Ines and Simon is that David isn’t satisfied with nearly all the answers to his questions. He wants to know why he should go to school. When they get the school for him he is dissatisfied with it. He wishes to know the underlying meaning of human relations and actions such as love, sex, family, adult-child relationship, discipline, love, care for animals, knowledge and its value to humans etc. David is always wishing for more dialogue with the adults in his life — parents, teachers, family friends etc. He is a child who isn’t looking for answers. For him, the world and all things in it — animate and inanimate — is a puzzle. PRODUCTION OF ROBOTS In a way, isn’t Coetzee suggesting to adults that the beauty of life (for children? Or even adults?) is not in solving puzzles, but in being confronted and contesting with them? What is education really worth if all that the learner needs to do is memorize answers to preset questions? Doesn’t this result in the production of human robots, which is exactly what school leavers of today are accused of being. It seems as if education these days is about demanding that the learner accumulates as much information as possible from what is available to him or her so that they can reproduce the same when asked to in examinations rather than help the learner acquire useful knowledge from the info. So, if we are so intent on changing the education system in Kenya, have we (adults) bothered to ask ourselves what the learners expect from the pedagogy they get in our schools and colleges. Is it enough really for the same experts who have been in charge of the supposedly failed system to wake up one day and propose a new curriculum without asking enough questions about the system they wish to replace (and reflect on their own contribution to the failed system)? What would David, the doubting, sometimes cynical, unsatisfied, dissatisfied, troublesome child in The Schooldays of Jesus, have asked the adults who are now proposing a syllabus for his age mates and schoolmates?  