Security agencies in Kisumu County have set up a committee to coordinate peace related activities in the county ahead of the August 8 elections. The 20-member team will work to prevent likely outbreak of election violence in the region. The area has been flagged as a hotspot for election violence following previous poll chaos and in the wake of hotly contested nominations for ODM tickets. Kisumu County Commissioner Mohammed Maalim said the team dubbed, County Peace Coordination Committee, will comprise of members of the county security intelligence, national steering and cross border peace. Also involved is the National Cohesion and Integration Commission, Uwiano for Peace Platform, faith-based organisations and civil societies in the peace sector. “The committee will harmonise activities of the over 140 civil societies in the county to ensure efficiency and avoid duplicating resources in the fight against violence during electioneering period. We cannot succeed in conflict resolution if we don’t coordinate and share resources,” said Mr Maalim. The commissioner said in light of the the rising number of actors dedicating their resources to peace agenda, there was need to know the work plan of each. “They should give their work plan, what they want to do where and when. We want to avoid duplication.” The committee will be chaired by the county commissioner. The team's theme is - 'If you have nothing to hide then you have nothing to fear.' Mr Maalim said Kisumu had been marked as a hotspot areas due to proliferation of gangs including China Squad and American Marine. “Kisumu’s Kondele is used by the international community as a litmus paper for whether there is peace in Kenya or not due to its volatile nature,” said the commissioner. The Western Kenya Peace Partners that brings together faith leaders, boda boda operators, traders among others have also called for stern action against politicians who make inflammatory remarks and finance youth to destabilize tranquility. They also asked all political parties to hire Independent Electoral and Boundaries (IEBC) to conduct nominations to avert possible unrest ahead of the elections next year. “Party primaries are usually characterized by violence, bribery and ethnicity that often prompts police to use excessive force. We therefore call upon the political parties to seek IEBC services during nominations to avert chaos,” said Mr Lucas Wandenya, the director for Support for Tropical Initiatives on Poverty Alleviation.  