The one thing we have become adept at is naming and shaming! And of course the naming and shaming is always outward, never inward. “We” are clean, blameless — it’s "other" people who need to sort out their act. We want other people (not ourselves) to deliver on their promises to us, and when they don’t, we make all the fuss we can. For example, how often do we hold the person inside us to account, the person who failed to follow through 80 per cent of the resolutions the last 10 years and has already slackened on the 2017 resolutions, even before February is over? We don’t like “pretence”, except when it’s our own. Now, here we are again, collectively using every online avenue we can, to shame. Eunice Njeri finds herself right at the centre of it all! Her sin: walking away from something she felt wasn’t right for her. Our authority to shame her — where does that arise from? Might it be rooted in something deeper in each of us, something we are afraid of, unsure of, or ashamed about in ourselves? Is our goal to help her or pull her down? Do we care more about her image than we do her needs, and her right to choose and live freely as her faith and conscience lead her? As a doctor who has served mostly middle-class families full-time in my medical practice around Nairobi, I shudder to imagine the quality of relationships most families have. The reality is that most relationships are not founded on the shared value of the relationship itself No, most relationships are initiated on and focused on a “protect our reputation” battle. People agree to marry him/her for their fame, looks, money, connections, church, height, education and all “reputation-enhancing” trappings. Too bad if the fame, looks, money, etc. begin to wane or lose the appeal that hypnotised at first. TRUST-BASED RELATIONSHIP Reputation has become more important than authentic freedom of choice. Our choices and behaviours are filtered at the sieve of reputation! Here’s the painful truth: Most parents are more interested in obtaining obedience from their children than they are in nurturing a trust-based relationship. In this reality, the child’s grades and behaviour matter because of the family image they contribute to, rather than being a reflection of the child’s true individuality. The child’s choice of school, activities, hobbies, friends, etc. are subservient to the family image, not the child’s individual needs. When “image” becomes the primary motivation, decision-making must suffer. Too many marriages are dead shells, because the partners ignored the obvious, because of wishing to maintain a reputation, an illusory image! We are crucifying Eunice for walking away from a potential marriage. I don’t know the facts, and there have been all sorts of rumours including “Exclusive! Eunice Njeri's parents react to the annulment”, “Eunice Njeri sneaked out of the house on her wedding night and flew”, “The last thing Eunice Njeri's husband said about her before”, and “So, Eunice Njeri lied to Kenyans! Texas pastor explains”. And that’s not even the tip of the iceberg. All these are what everyone else says, thinks or did following Eunice’s decision. In the end, the only person whose decision matters is one, Eunice! Who said that just because she’s a born-again Christian she has no right to make her own decisions, say yes to what serves her, and say no to what doesn’t? Who said that she has no right to walk away from what her heart rejects? And who says that she can’t walk away the last minute? If only more people had the courage to sign up, enjoin or align themselves only with opportunities that they truly feel are right for them! Too many marriages are dead shells. Too many dating relationships are reputation alliances, rather than mutually enriching journeys? That couple would rather ride a matatu than buy a Vitz — because of “image”. When we see a young lady walk away from something, shouldn’t we applaud her rather than shame her? She knew her career was in the line. She knew it would disappoint her family, friends, church members and fans, but she did it! What is this that attunes our hearts and minds to shame rather than to empathy and benevolence? And this year alone, that has only been one of the few stories of shaming and naming! Only that the loudest voices never turn the same vigour inward. Do we hold ourselves accountable even to the commitments we make to ourselves with similar vigour? I say, leave Eunice alone. I will leave her alone, and wish her well. I don’t know her journey. My own journey is enough of a handful. I still have myself to hold to account, to live up to the values I espouse, and persist in the face of discouragement. I have myself to retrain to live in contentment no matter the situation. I will leave her alone. May her journey be peaceful and her life fulfilling. I have my own heart to search, to ensure that I am not living outside brighter than I am inside. Who am I to instruct her how to live her life? I am no one. *** Dr Job Mogire is a leadership and research fellow at Harvard University, executive director at House of Mastery (HM), and author of Prescription for Excellence and Bold Grasp. As a certified Excellence and Mastery Coach (EMC) with the Coaching Academy (UK), he helps individuals and organisations develop, nurture, and unleash excellence. Email: jmogire@hseofmastery.com, Twitter: @jsmogire  