Kitui senatorial hopeful Enoch Wambua begins a nine-day campaign tour on Sunday that will see him traverse the entire county to mobilise people to register as voters. During the tour, Mr Wambua, a former journalist, will address a series of 50 consecutive whistle stop campaign rallies in all the county’s eight constituencies. According to Mr Wambua, his convoy, which includes vehicles branded with Wiper party colours, leaves Nairobi this morning but will converge at Athi market, at the border of Kitui and Makueni counties, to begin the campaign tour. He explained that after the day time rallies, a 45 minute documentary featuring his senatorial candidacy, his community service and political aspirations will be screened for residents to watch every evening in the various market centres his campaign team will be camping. “Our mission is to sensitise people to register as voters in the remaining days, popularise my senatorial bid ahead of April’s party primaries and solidify the Wiper party base,” Mr Wambua told the Sunday Nation on Saturday. In the past few weeks after making his grand debut into Kitui county politics, Mr Wambua has succeeded in thrusting himself at the centre of Wiper party and opposition Cord coalition politics as a staunch ally of former vice-president Kalonzo Musyoka. The senate aspirant said Mr Musyoka was the surest bet to deliver victory for the National Super Alliance (Nasa) against Jubilee party and urged opposition leaders to throw their weight behind his party leader. “All Cord leaders are strong enough individually but taking into account the issues of possible voter apathy and turnout across different regions, Kalonzo Musyoka is the best candidate to deliver victory against Jubilee,” he said. Mr Wambua urged fellow aspirants seeking the Wiper ticket to make concerted efforts to popularise the party and Mr Musyoka’s presidential bid, saying political mobilisation required collective hard work. “I want to be the senator of Kitui to work with all leaders both at county and national levels to seek specific, measurable, achievable, realistic and timely solutions to challenges we all face as a community,” he said. Mr Wambua has already been endorsed by several Kitui leaders and high ranking professionals including Prof Makau Mutua and Dr Isaac Kalua.  