Kenyan Premier League Limited, the body which runs the top-flight football league in Kenya, and Football Kenya Federation, the body mandated to run football in the country, have been wrangling for the better part of this year regarding the composition of the Kenyan Premier League. This is just the latest instalment of the wrangles. The two organisations have had a sour relationship that has been teetering closer to the brink of total breakdown in working relations since Nick Mwendwa became FKF president a year ago. But football wrangles did not start with Mwendwa’s tenure. Wrangles have dogged Kenyan football since 2004 when Alfred Sambu took over as chairman of the local football federation, then known as Kenya Football Federation. It is a scenario that has been repeated almost every year since KPL came into being, and the bone of contention has always been either power struggles among federation officials and between the federation and KPL bosses, ego wars or composition of the top-flight league. 16-TEAM LEAGUE Since last year, the league body has maintained it prefers a 16-team competition for the 2017 season but FKF has been pushing for an expanded league featuring 18 teams.   After failing to agree on the number of teams in the league, the matter was referred to the Sports Disputes Tribunal (SDT) which on Friday morning ruled that the league would feature 16 teams, excluding Muhoroni Youth, Sofapaka, Vihiga United and KCB whose legibility for the top fight was in question. FKF had promoted Kariobangi Sharks and Nzoia FC to the top-flight league but added KCB and Vihiga United after Muhoroni Youth and Sofapaka had failed to meet registration criteria for the league, prompting a big fall out with KPL. The tribunal’s ruling provided temporary reprieve as both KPL and FKF agreed to heed the ruling, but what fans and players have been treated to is uneasy calm rather than long-term solution. Meanwhile, a case in which KPL has enjoined Muhoroni Youth and Sofapaka in protest against their relegation is pending at the tribunal, while FKF boss Mwendwa has given every indication that he is still interested in an expanded league this season.   The tribunal is expected to make a ruling this week. There could be more damage, postponements and fallouts. The squabbles are sure to further affect performance of the national team and Kenyan clubs in international competitions. In the last decade, Kenyan clubs have been bundled out of CAF competitions at the preliminary stages. Harambee Stars last competed in Africa Cup of Nations in 2004. At the weekend, UIinzi Stars and Tusker both failed to win their first leg, first round matches of the CAF Confederation Cup and Champions League respectively, and are in real danger of being eliminated at this stage. Tusker drew 1-1 with Mauritius side AS Port Louis in CAF Champions League preliminaries at Kasarani Stadium on Saturday, while Ulinzi lost 1-0 away to Libyan side Al Hilal Benghazi in CAF Confederation Cup on Friday in Cairo.   Mwendwa’s predecessor Sam Nyamweya is convinced that the tribunal’s ruling is just a temporary solution. He says that despite the fact that the path is now clear for the commencement of the 2017 season, the antagonism between league and federation is far from over. “I don’t think it is over. You see, a court might be very powerful, but it cannot rule between a husband and a wife. It takes more than a ruling to solve a problem,” Nyamweya said. “It is only the two parties that can agree because they are the ones who know what they are pursuing. The matter may appear to be over for now, but is the bad blood between the two parties over?” Nyamweya wondered. “Leadership is not about fighting, because you cannot win all the time. It is about negotiating truthfully and with football in mind”. The dispute seems far from over. Last week before the ruling, Mwendwa insisted the rule of law must be applied. To show he meant business, opened disciplinary charges on Mathare United chairman Bob Munro, Gor Mahia chairman Ambrose Rachier, KPL CEO Jack Oguda as well as KPL chairman James Musyoki who are all members of the KPL executive committee. Reacting to the tribunal’s ruling on Friday, Mwendwa said he ban individuals or institutions standing in the way of implementation of and expanded league and club licensing rules. On the other hand, KPL seems willing to do everything in its power to maintain a lean 16-team league. Even when KPL appeared to be losing ground late last month when the tribunal ruled that the league be comprised of 18 teams starting this season and the federation pledged to foot the additional cost, the league body accepted the verdict in public but walked a different path in private.   It has also emerged that KPL officials had already disbursed funds to Sofapaka and Muhoroni Youth ahead of the season, and KPL is unlikely to relent in its push for the reinstatement of the teams in the league. Wrangles have been seen in local football almost every year since KPL came into being, the bone of contention being power struggles among federation officials and between the federation and KPL bosses, ego wars or composition of the top-flight league. The opening scene of the annual ritual begins shortly before the end of every season, builds up with half-truths, name-calling and misrepresentation of facts throughout the two-month pre-season period (December and January), then transforms into a full blown supremacy battle requiring mediation by the scheduled league kick-off time. A way out is always arrived at, but history holds that every solution arrived at in the last decade has always been tailor-made to last no more than a season. Documents seen by Nation Sports indicate that the strife between KPL and the federation dates back to 2004. Every year the conflicting parties fight about the composition of the top flight and every year they fail to agree. In 2014, with Alfred Sambu as chairman of Kenya Football Federation, the fight became so protracted it delayed the league’s kick-off by a month, attracting Fifa’s attention. Fifa consultant Ashford Mamelodi mediated talks between KFF and KPL but the squabbles continued again at the end of that season. The other memorable year to be quoted in this fight was in 2008, when KFF was an all-powerful body that even took full charge of the national team. This brought friction between the two bodies and when KPL objected to this, it was threatened with revocation of its license and its officials buckled. From then until now, the wrangles have solely been about the expansion of the league.  