There will be no by-elections in Kwale and in Nyeri following the deaths of two county leaders, the electoral commission has said. In Kwale, the legal process of filling the vacancy of Senator Boy Juma Boy will go close to the General Election date, the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) said on Friday. BOY'S SUCCESSOR On the other hand, Nyeri residents are not required to go to the polls following the death of Governor Nderitu Gachagua, because, under the Constitution, Deputy Governor Samuel Wamathai assumes the top office. “It is (by-election for Kwale) a lengthy process,” IEBC Electoral Operations Manager Mwaura Kamwati told the Kenya Chevening Alumni Network in Nairobi. Only five months are left to the General Election and if the IEBC takes 90 days to conduct the by-election, the earliest Kwale can get Me Boy’s successor is the end of May. PARLIAMENT Considering that Parliament will stand dissolved in August, it makes no economic sense to spend millions of taxpayer money on the by-election and incur a similar cost two months later. The IEBC’s decision means aspirants eyeing Mr Boy’s seat — including his son Keah Boy Juma, former Matuga MP Chirau Ali Mwakwere, nominated Senator Agnes Zani and her brother Nicholas Zani — will have to hold their horses until August. Other aspirants are Mshenga Ruga, Hassan Mzinga, who are said to be interested in vying on a Jubilee Party ticket, and Kinyasi Ginora, who is seeking to fly the Amani National Congress flag. FRESH MANDATE In Nyeri, the Constitution allows Mr Wamathai, the deputy governor, to take over from the late Mr Gachagua. “If a vacancy occurs in the office of county governor, the deputy county governor shall assume office as county governor for the remainder of the term of the county governor,” reads Article 182 (2) of the Constitution. This means Mr Wamathai will serve the remainder of Mr Gachagua’s term and, if he chooses, seek a fresh mandate in the August 8 General Election. IEBC READY Mr Kamwati, who represented IEBC chief executive Ezra Chiloba at the Chevening Kenya Alumni Network breakfast meeting at Fairview Hotel, said the agency is ready to conduct the elections despite court cases upsetting some of their timelines. The alumni network, set to be officially launched on March 23 in Nairobi, brings together scholars who studied in the United Kingdom courtesy of the Chevening Scholarships. The scholars engaged the commission on election matters — including preparations for the August polls and how they can take part and make a difference.   Nyeri County boss was undergoing treatment at Royal Marsden Hospital.