Deputy President William Ruto has been taken to court for allegedly failing to provide support for a child he sired out of wedlock. The woman alleges that Mr Ruto had been supporting them but he became elusive when he assumed his current position as DP. “After Mr Ruto assumed the office of the DP, he discontinued offering any form of monetary support, leaving us in abject poverty,” claims the mother in court papers. But the DP yesterday responded to the woman’s claims on his Twitter page, saying his 11-year-old daughter is well catered for, including her education in a private boarding school. He also challenged “politicians and busybodies to keep off”. Through lawyer Gitobu Imanyara, the woman claims that a friendship between her and Mr Ruto started around 2005. Mr Ruto was then the Eldoret North MP. “Mr Ruto pursued her with various propositions for a romantic relationship and, owing to her gullibility, she acquiesced to the advances,” said Mr Imanyara. LIST OF DEMANDS He added that, as a result of the relationship, the woman conceived and a baby girl was born in March 2006. The lawyer said in court papers that Mr Ruto had assured the woman that he would take full parental responsibility for their daughter and promised to sufficiently provide for them. “She agreed to Mr Ruto’s assurances that he would support them financially and he initially did so, although not to the standards that would have been expected of a high-ranking politician and businessman in the country,” said Mr Imanyara. The woman has also claimed that Mr Ruto sent her Sh35,000 through an aide only after her lawyers issued a demand letter and threatened to file a case in court. She wants the court to compel the DP to provide maintenance for the minor in the form of food, shelter, clothing, toiletries, house help, medical care and education amounting to more than Sh200,000 monthly. She also wants a vehicle to enable her to pick up and drop off the child at school, as well as security services. The case will be heard today.   The DP warned politicians and 'busybodies' not to meddle in the matter.