Kenya s top amateur golfers are at Muthaiga Golf Club this weekend for the 2017 Muthaiga Open which is the third leg in this year s Kenya Amateur Golf Championship (KAGC) series.This weekend s event, which has attracted a field of 100 players, is being played over 54 holes and will count towards the World Amateur Rankings and the national team selection. Muthaiga Open, sponsored by Safari Club and Crown Paints, will see Kenneth Bollo - who is also the 2016 Golfer of The Year try to defend his title. To take on Bollo besides some of the home players like Jeff Kubwa, John Gitonga, Evans Vitisia, Kumar Dhall, and youngster Zubair Khan, will be Kenya Amateur Matchplay Champion Sujan Shah of Sigona, Limuru s John Karichu and Nyali Open champion Edwin Mudanyi of Vet Lab. Saturday s first round is set for 7am followed by the second round from noon. The third and final round will take place on Sunday morning. On Friday, Muthaiga will host the Junior Golf Foundation (JGF) fund-raising tournament in aid of Kenya s national junior teams for the All Africa Junior Golf Championship in Harare Zimbabwe next month. At the nine-hole Kiambu Golf club course, a record field of 176 players were drawn for the Urithi Golf Day event which is being sponsored by Urithi Housing Cooperative Society limited. Some prizes will be at stake on Saturday where the battle will be once again be between the middle and low handicap golfers. Last weekend, John Kangethe, playing off handicap 16, beat the single figure handicap golfers such as Michael Wanjohi(6) and Michael Karanga(3) by one point to win the Johnnie Walker series. Club captain Sammy Muriu said the course is getting better after a dry spell and that some impressive scores are anticipated this weekend. Meanwhile, the Flying Doctors Society of Africa (FDSA) has organised a major fundraiser at Karen Country Club on Friday to raise money for the funding and implementing the Vesico-Vaginal Fistula Programme that aims to restore dignity to women suffering from fistula. The objective of this programme is to treat patients who would not otherwise have access to the care they need and to train local health teams in rural areas to carry out this work themselves in the future.This particular event aims to raise over Sh3 million towards eradication of fistula. email print email print Daily Nation Sport gives you a list of this weekend's golf fixtures: Survey shows 49 per cent of Kenyans do not want Cord leader to retire. Two intercepted at Syria-Turkey border are said be ISIS sympathisers.