The Orange Democratic Movement has disclosed its plan of ensuring credibility of its primaries. Secretary-General Agnes Zani said there is no cause for alarm as it had put in place adequate measures to ensure trustworthy nomination results. Dr Zani told Nation that the strategies will curb dishing of certificates to contenders. "We have put in place new rules to enhance fairness in our nominations. For instance, apart from the National Elections Board headed by Judy Pareno, we now also have the County Election Committees and Constituency Election Panels that will ensure efficient nominations," Dr Zani said. READ: No direct tickets in ODM nominations - Raila says She said the new system will change the norm of ODM nominations, for the process will begin from the grassroots to the national level. There have been fears that contesters seen as close friends to party leader Raila Odinga will be given direct tickets. As the party gears up for the primaries, focus has been put on former secretary-general and Kisumu Senator Anyang’ Nyong’o and Kisumu deputy governor Ruth Odinga - who are both seeking to unseat Kisumu's Governor Jack Ranguma. "It will be open for everyone to participate and believe you me nobody, popular or unpopular, will be favoured. The people’s candidate will carry the day," she added. Other areas where the activity will be monitored are Suba constituency (ODM chairman John Mbadi will face off with Caroli Omondi), Busia County (Funyula MP Paul Otuoma will run against incumbent Governor Sospeter Ojamoong’) and Siaya, where Governor Cornel Rasanga is pitted against Rarieda MP Nicholas Gumbo and businessman William Oduol. READ: Men-in-Black block cameras at Raila meeting READ: Confusion marks ODM grassroots polls In Bondo, Nominated MP Oburu Oginga will face off with incumbent Gideon Ochanda and in Migori former Rongo MP Ochillo Ayacko will run against Governor Okoth Obado and Nyatike MP Edick Anyanga’s wife Anne for the top county post. In Homa Bay, Governor Cyprian Awiti is also facing fierce battle against Kasipul MP Oyugi Magwanga for the coveted seat. Mr Magwanga is relying on the performance of his constituency to catapult him to the top. The constituency, out of 290, was ranked top for best use of CDF in the 2015/16 financial year. "I am on track and will definitely send Awiti home. He has proved that most of his projects were simply being implemented on paper and not on the ground," the MP said. Kibra constituency is also a place to watch since Mr Raila Odinga's daughter Rosemary will be hoping to grasp the ticket to unseat Ken Okoth. Mr Odinga’s former aide Eliud Owalo has complained about the party leader's interference in the area's politics.  