Four men died Thursday afternoon after falling into a sewage pit that they were unclogging at Leather Industries Limited in Thika. Two more are recuperating at a Nairobi hospital and were reported to be in a critical condition. Five of the victims were unclogging the pit to allow free flow of waste water when one of them accidentally fell in. As his colleagues attempted to rescue him, they were choked by the gases that were coming from the pit and fell inside. "The victims might have been overwhelmed by the strong gases emitted by the waste water. They might have felt dizzy before falling into the pit," said a source who requested for anonymity. "The gases emitted at this effluent pit are so strong and at times they make people unconscious. You can tell by the foul smell coming from this place. Area residents have on numerous times complained about the smell [but] in vain," another source explained. Among the dead is the company's security guard, who had rushed to the scene some minutes later to check on what was happening after distress calls reached him. Workers said that immediately after the accident, the management asked some of them to rush to the scene and rescue the victims before rushing them to various hospitals, where four were pronounced dead upon arrival. INVESTIGATIONS START Thika West Deputy County Commissioner Tom Anjere said police have launched investigations to establish the circumstances under which the workers died. He spoke during a tour of the scene by area security officials. He also urged Thika residents to remain calm as police investigate into the incident. Ama Thika Muslim Health Centre confirmed receiving two workers, who were pronounced dead upon arrival, while Mt Sinai Hospital received four victims, two of whom were also pronounced dead on arrival. Survivors were transferred to Aga Khan Hospital in Nairobi. The company is yet to issue a statement on the incident. However, workers at the factory claimed that such incidents are common but they go unreported because employees get pay hikes and keep quiet. "It is not the first time that this is happening. Several people have died. Their families are normally told that they fell by accident. “However, these accidents can be reduced. “Today's victims did not have sufficient protective gear, they only had gumboots and coveralls," revealed a source at the factory.  