Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka has called for an extension of the voting period to allow for more of their supporters to enlist. Mr Musyoka yesterday said the party is in talks with the electoral body to see if it will extend the mass voter registration to achieve the targets it had set. But IEBC, through, communications director Andrew Limo, insisted the commission would not extend the dates. “As we have said before, we do not intend to extend the registration exercise. With only three days to go, we urge all eligible Kenyans to turn out in large numbers to register as voters,” he said. Mr Kalonzo said many of those hoping to be registered in the National Super Alliance (Nasa) coalition areas do not have identity cards. “Potential voters are still waiting for their identity cards and we hope the government will fast track the process so that they can be registered,” Mr Musyoka said. Three days to the end of the month-long voter registration period set by the polls’ body, Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) records indicate that the Opposition strongholds of Nyanza, Western and Coast had registered the least number of voters compared to President Kenyatta’s and Deputy President William Ruto’s bedrocks of Central and Rift Valley. Mr Musyoka, who met the party’s national elections council at their headquarters in Lavington, said they have realised that the number of those who have registered is below their expectations. IEBC had set a conservative target of registering 4 million new voters and a higher target of 6 million, but numbers released after three weeks of the exercise are less than 1.5 million voters. DISCORD IN WIPER Wiper secretary-general Hassan Omar claimed there is a ploy by the Jubilee government to ensure that they stay in power by frustrating voter registration in places that are not their strongholds. “We are asking the government to speed up issuing of IDs so that our people can vote,” he said. The Wiper top brass meeting was convened to address divisions in the party pitting Mr Kalonzo on the one hand, and Ukambani senators David Musila, Johnson Muthama and Mutula Kilonzo Jnr. Mr Musila, a longtime ally of Mr Musyoka, has been unhappy that the latter had endorsed Kitui Governor, Mr Julius Malombe, whom he is seeking to replace in the next polls. “I also want to assure anyone that there will be no direct nomination, and it will be a free fair and open exercise,” Mr Omar told the press after the four hour meeting. Wiper exuded confidence that the Opposition will approach the next election as one team with Mr Omar saying the coalition would map out areas where they will do joint nominations even as parties fielded candidates in other areas. In Mumias, Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang’ula said the Opposition was committed to winning and that he would support the outcome of the Nasa nominations. “We are united and our aim is to save the country from Jubilee,” he said. Yesterday, ODM leader Raila Odinga was not on the voter listing campaign but attacked Jubilee for doing little to save Kenyans from drought.   Some legislators trying to seek direct nomination, deputy party leader says.