More than 100 doctors in private hospitals in Nakuru have declared they will down their tools from February 15 in solidarity with jailed officials of the Kenya Medical Practitioners, Pharmacists and Dentists Union. Through the Nakuru branch of the Kenya Medical Association (KMA), the doctors said they will paralyse services for 48 hours to join their colleagues in nationwide protests in Nairobi. "We will down our services inclusive of the private services on 15th from midnight. "And we would like to call on members of the public to join us in the protest that will begin at the High Court to State House grounds on Wednesday," said Nakuru KMA secretary Joy Mugambi at Nakuru Hospice on Monday. Kenya Medical Practitioners, Pharmacists and Dentists Union (KMPDU) officials were jailed today by Judge Hellen Wasilwa for contempt of court in the ongoing doctors' strike. She ruled the officials did not provide sufficient reasons why the court should review their one-month jail sentence. READ: Doctors jailed over strike - VIDEO Dr Mugambi said the move will compel the government to resolve the strike. Central Rift Pharmaceutical Society of Kenya chairman Victor Achoka urged President Uhuru Kenyatta to intervene and consider pardoning the KMPDU officials so that negotiations can proceed. "The President has the power to grant the KMPDU officials pardon as they are part of the solution to the ongoing doctors’ strike," Dr Achoka said. While admitting that the KMPDU officials were in contempt of court, they blamed the government for lack of goodwill in resolving the matter. The medics said negotiations on the implementation of a 2013 collective bargaining agreement have been derailed and some government officials have been using the disorder in the sector for personal gain. "It’s true that legally there was contempt of court, but there is a misconception that the strike is about salaries. The strike is about sealing the loopholes in the medical sector that will see delivering of better services in the public health facilities," said KMA member Carolyne Muiru. They called on other stakeholders to intervene and end the standoff.  