When Catherine, the mother of Branton, was sent to our school as Acting Headmistress suddenly became very harsh on me, everyone knew that my days here were numbered. For the first time, I was not calling the shots in the school. I hear that some of my colleagues, of the enemies of development wing, were very happy. “Amekuwa akijifanya sana sasa wacha tuone,” Madam Ruth said, so I hear. “Nimemuweka in his place” bragged Kuya, adding that Catherine, the new acting HM, was fully in his pocket. “And there is no space for an extra person, especially Dre,” he assured them. But anyone who knows me very well will tell you that on matters this school, I cannot be sidelined for long. Bensouda, and Juma before her, had tried to sideline me, but they all came back to me unaware of what had hit them. The first problem was Kuya himself. Every time Catherine and Kuya discussed something, it would leak out to other teachers in a matter of minutes. I could see the other teachers always busy on their phones, and at times they could laugh out loud. I did not need a calculator to know that they were busy discussing Catherine on the staffroom WhatsApp group that they refused to add me. And every thought that Catherine had and shared with Kuya, he would immediately share with his colleagues on WhatsApp. This upset Catherine, and the other Friday, she called me. “Dre,” she said once I was seated. “This school of yours has no secrets?” she asked me. “Anything I think of or imagine is out there long before I say it.” I downplayed the matter but asked for examples. “I was planning to make Lena the games master but even before I told her, she came here complaining that she has medical issues,” she said. TRUSTED ADVISOR “I also wanted to put Madam Atika in upper classes so that she could be more productive but yesterday she came to see me complaining that she has back problems and her doctor prescribed afternoon rests for her,” she added. I told her that was a lie, and the only rest Mrs Atika takes is from class, otherwise when out she is usually doing more strenuous things. Within a few days, I was back in the fold. And Kuya was out! I was now Catherine’s adviser on official matters and beyond and the sole recipient of privileged school information. Since she had some things to do with the County Education office, she would arrive at school late, meaning that we would often sit in the office late, talking, planning and strategising. On Wednesday last week for example, I was with her in school up to 8 pm. We discussed all topics under the sun. We also planned for the staff meeting the next day in which she was to announce some drastic changes and make some reshuffles in the school. She had been discussing them with Kuya but since Kuya could never keep a secret, she decided to change tact and work with me. I suggested several changes to her new line-up, all which were accepted. I was keen to ensure that Kuya does not get something substitutive and I convinced Catherine to drop him as academic master. “Have they confirmed you on this role?” I asked her. “No, I am still acting,” she said. “And that is why I need your help for me to succeed so that I can be confirmed.” It was at about 8.30 pm when we left school, and I escorted her to her place, in Mwisho wa Lami’s Milimani area. I stayed there with her for some time. “You see how lonely I am here,” she told me as she poured the third glass of juice. “That’s why I have been asking for Brandon to come over.” “We can talk about that,” I said. I am sure we won’t disagree. I left her place very late, arriving home when Fiolina was already asleep. We had a staff meeting the next morning. While at Catherine’s the previous day we had agreed how we wanted the staff meeting to be run. The meeting was at 9.30 am but by 9.50 am only two teachers were present. The rest arrived a few minutes later, all together. From the look on their faces, they were clearly from another meeting to strategise how they would oppose the one we were about to have. “By now you all know that I do not take lightly people coming late for meetings,” Catherine said. All looked down. “It is now over a month since I joined this school and time is now ripe for me to make some changes that will go a long way in taking this school to the next level.” She went on. “Our new Fit for Purpose structure will ensure that everything we do will be anchored on three pillars: People, Academics and Body.” I was happy to hear her use the same words I had said to her the day before. “We will ensure that we have the right people in the appropriate places so that we can deliver our set ambitions,” she said. She went on with further explanations on the new ways of working, and invited questions before she could release the new structure. “Why are we changing in the middle of the term?” asked Kuya. “May is not so far, why can’t we wait for next term?” “Thanks Kuya,” answered Catherine. “If you have a wound, you treat it immediately, you don’t waste any time.” ENEMIES OF DEVELOPMENT “Even extracurricular activities, some of us have already started engaging students in the activities assigned to us, will you change now?” “The new Fit for Purpose structure will see us putting teachers where they truly belong,” said Catherine. “So if you are in the wrong place we are going to change you and put you where you truly belong.” “Any other concern?” she asked. “Say now or forever keep you peace.” “I hope those of us with medical problems have been considered,” said Mrs Atika. “I have heard of teachers here with medical problems but I haven’t been given any supporting documents from a medical doctor,” said Catherine. “My case is well known, the former HM and even the county director know about it,” Mrs Atika protested. “I am not disputing that. Show me supporting documents and I will act accordingly.” One did not need a calculator to know that some of my colleagues at school seem to have ganged in an alliance to oppose me and Catherine. Led my Kuya, the alliance against us had Saphire, Mrs Atika, Lena and Nzomo. They kept asking many questions and disputing our plans at every stage. As a result, the two hours meant for the staff to agree on the changes ended before Catherine could give the new names. “We seem very apprehensive about these changes,” said Catherine. “Since they will take effect next Monday, Dre will post the new structure and timetable on Sunday afternoon. You can come and check it out on Sunday afternoon or not but I expect us to be up and running come Monday morning.” With that she dismissed the meeting. We met in the afternoon to make minor amendments as it was now clear which teachers were in the Super Alliance formed against us. I have been having the list under lock and key. It will be out today afternoon.  