The incoming Nyeri Governor Samuel Wamathai would thank fate for his ascendency to the top seat. In 2013, he never planned to be Mr Gachagua’s running mate in the first place. Mr Gachagua had chosen the current Athi Water Services chairman, Mr Wachira Keen, to be his running mate but Mr Keen bolted out of the Gachagua’s camp and went for governor post but lost the TNA ticket. Mr Wamathai was in the race for the Nyeri MP seeking to unseat Ms Esther Murugi, when he was named the running mate only months to the March 2013 elections. In a dramatic turn of events when aspirants were presenting papers to the Independent, Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) for clearance in Nyeri, Mr Wamathai’s degree certificate was rejected. Governor Gachagua was at the offices waiting for his deputy to surrender their papers only to receive the news. Mr Wamathai holds a Bachelor in Air and Space Law from McGill University in Canada. But to be accepted by the IEBC as authentic certificate, it had to be certified by Commission for University Education. “He had missed that very important step and we had to travel to Nairobi to have the degree paper declared authentic,” said a close ally of the Deputy Governor, who requested anonymity. Journalists covering the exercise recall the drama that ensued as the county boss tried to maintain his calm. Mr Wamathai was forced to drive to his home in Nairobi after IEBC officers allowed him to surrender the certified paper the following day. Together with Devolution Cabinet Secretary Mwangi Kiunjuri, Mr Gachagua formed the Grand National Union (GNU) party, which he vied on in the polls. With him was Mr Keen, who later ditched GNU for President Kenyatta’s party TNA. WORKING RELATIONSHIP After his defection, the party’s officials across the county held day and night meetings to decide on the way forward before settling on Mr Wamathai. “The governor told us to hold meetings at the eight sub counties and come up with a name. We landed on Mr Wamathai because he was experienced, educated and a cool man,” said a source. Speaking on Friday, Mr Keen said he opted to vie for the seat after Mr Gachagua declined to join TNA. “He decided to go for the party that was not known because he believed in fighting for what he believed in,” he said. Mr Keen dropped out of the race after he lost to Mr Wahome Gakuru in TNA’s nominations. Until the governor’s illness and long absence in the county, Mr Wamathai was rarely in public limelight and only represented the governor at forums hosted in the county. In the last four days, the deputy governor has led an aggressive campaign criss-crossing various wards where he launched road projects. When rumours did rounds that Mr Gachagua had opted out of the August polls race, Mr Wamathai hit out at the rivals for spreading false information. He had also affirmed his position as county chief running mate in the August polls dispelling claims that he would be abandoned. He has often praised his relationship with Mr Gachagua as the best citing counties where the county bosses and their deputies were in constant war. “We have respected each other since we took office. We have had a very good working relationship and not even a single day have we quarrelled,” said Mr Wamathia, who had endeavoured to market the county as a tourist destination, in an earlier interview.   Nyeri County boss was undergoing treatment at Royal Marsden Hospital.