A senator elicited unexpected debate in the Senate when he referred to US President Donald Trump as a “rogue leader” before a visiting delegation from the International Monetary Fund and World Bank. Elgeyo-Marakwet senator Kipchumba Murkomen said this when he welcomed the delegation seated at the Speaker’s gallery. “As the US President is a rogue president, we have witnessed that the more money you invest, the more you command. But, the shareholding of developed countries doesn’t stop the decision making process,” the lawmaker said. The legislators were divided on whether it was in order for Mr Murkomen, who is the deputy majority leader in the House, to refer to a sitting president of a friendly nation in such a manner. Garissa Senator Yusuf Haji demanded that Mr Murkomen apologises saying he had demeaned Mr Trump. Mr Billow Kerrow (Mandera) said what Mr Murkomen said was in the public domain as Mr Trump had been criticised in many platforms. “Even the US Senate has referred to the president as a rogue president,” Mr Kerrow said as the visitors listened to the bandying of words. They left the gallery soon after. Mr Murkomen maintained that the US could not dictate to other countries how they should conduct their affairs. DEMANDED APOLOGIES Senate Minority Leader Moses Wetang’ula said Parliament should interrogate its rules as “referring to someone as rogue doesn’t necessarily imply discussing their personal conduct”. Mr Ethuro demanded that Mr Murkomen apologises. Dr Boni Khalwale (Kakamega), however, challenged the IMF and World Bank to consider how governments in Africa spent foreign aid before approving further disbursement of funds. Speaker Ekwee Ethuro said any lawmaker should seek a substantive motion at least three days in advance to be allowed to discuss such a matter. The Speaker declined a move by Mr Murkomen to only apologise for the impression the use of the word ‘rogue’ had created saying, he must apologise for the whole statement against the US president. “America can’t lecture us on matters democracy because the country itself is under siege,” Mr Murkomen said, before the Speaker interrupted him.  