Q. I graduated in September 2015 from a private university with a master’s degree in Finance Administration. Late last year, I was offered a job by my alma mater in their finance department, with a higher salary and benefits. The university however has had numerous wrangles at the helm, and a number of scandals where billions of shillings have been embezzled. I am a man of high integrity, but the lure of working at a higher level is too much to resist. Will my joining this (sinking) ship blot my integrity?  It is positive that you have been offered an attractive career opportunity. You are however concerned that your integrity may be stained by the corruption in the institution. The reputation of an organisation is a key component of its employee value proposition. The perception or reality of the lack of integrity in an organisation stifles its ability to attract and retain quality talent, as illustrated by your hesitation. The allure of career growth and attractive perks is a normal facet of ambition, however, while higher remuneration is desirable, it may not be prudent to pursue it at any cost. You would, for instance, be ill at ease working in an environment where the normal course of duty requires you to compromise your values. If you have reason to believe that the problems at the university are unlikely to be resolved soon, you are better placed seeking an opportunity that is more hospitable for your values. And if, as you put it, the ship will be sinking, boarding it hardly appears an attractive career option, especially for the long-term. Some people have however been able to stay true to their values in the midst of prevailing corruption. This does not mean they remain unscathed. The risk of their reputation getting tainted alongside that of their environment looms large. You would require an exceptionally rigid moral spine to move against the grain and remain upright in a corrupt environment. The job offer could on the other hand be an opportunity to be agent of transformation in the institution. Needless to state, to be a beacon of light in a dark environment carries great career rewards. It also comes with risks, such as an early end of tenure. You should perhaps await the next bus unless you have the nerve for corporate martyrdom.  