About 30 chiefs in Laikipia are facing the sack for allegedly attending a meeting convened by former Mungiki leader Mr Maina Njenga. The chiefs and their assistants have since been given one week to show cause why they should not be disciplined or relieved of their duties for attending the meeting. In a letter from the office of Interior Principal Secretary Karanja Kibicho seen by Nation, the administrators have been accused of misconduct for "attending and taking part in political meetings and leading delegations from their area of jurisdiction to Mr Maina’s residence." The letter is dated February 21. “It has been stated clear that all public servants should not take a side in the elections and should always support the government agenda,” the letter reads in part. The letter further states; “You are hereby directed to show cause why you should not be disciplined or relieved off your duties for attending a political meeting hosted by an aspirant." The chiefs allegedly attended the meeting that was hosted by Mr Njenga at his home in Ol Jororok, Nyandarua County a week ago. Mr Njenga has already declared his candidature for the Laikipia senatorial seat. When contacted for comment, Nyahururu Deputy County Commissioner Ms Flora Morwa denied knowledge of the letter. “It is true that civil servants are not supposed to be partisan and should always support the government agenda. “I am on aware of any letter that was sent to the chiefs or their assistants,” she said. Mr Njenga confirmed that he hosted the chiefs at his home but not for political reasons. The aspirant criticised the move to discipline the chiefs saying they had done nothing wrong. “The meeting is one of the many I hold with leaders and residents at public barazas to get their views on challenges experienced in different areas and there was nothing secretive about it that should warrant disciplinary action,” he told the Nation by phone.   Deputy Governor Gitonga Kabugi has also declared interest to oust his boss.