The Uasin Gishu County government and Sports Kenya on Thursday handed over the second Sh304 million phase of renovation works at Eldoret’s Kipchoge Keino Stadium to the contractor. The second phase, which includes building the terraces, two pavilions, entry and exits gates, changing rooms and an indoor games hall, will take eight months before completion. According to Doris Petra, a Football Kenya Federation vice-person who is also a director Sports Kenya, the Sh304 million will be paid to the contractor who is supposed to start work immediately. “The contractor is on the site now and the second phase of the works is supposed to take exactly eight months before being ready for use,” said Petra. Uasin Gishu County Secretary Peter Lelei said they will accord the contractor all the support he may need for him to complete the project on time. “The county government will give the contractor all the support since he is now in charge of the stadium for the next eight months. Once it’s completed, it will be of good use especially to the athletes and other sporting disciplines,” said Lelei. He further stated that the stadium will be used to host trials for major games in athletics and it will be able to host international football games and other championships. “We would like to use the stadium into good use,” he said. Other stadiums to be constructed or rehabilitated under a recently-signed memorandum of understanding between county governments and Sports Kenya are in Marsabit, Makueni, Karambu (Kiambu), Kamariny (Elgeyo Marakwet), Kirubia (Tharaka Nithi) and Ruringu (Nyeri). Phase three of the Kipchoge Keino Stadium project will be financed by the Uasin Gishu County government at a cost of Sh100 million. WIETC Company chief executive Haibo Yu said he will start the construction work immediately and, if possible, he will deliver inside the eight months. “As the main contractor, I want to say that we will be able to deliver on time and we only need support from the county government,” he said.  