Had he been born four kilometres east of his Maili Munana village in Busia, Uganda, Dennis Masinde Onyango would have been a Kenyan. Or at least Kenya-born. But he is not. The 29-year old goalkeeper is a famed Uganda international going places. His career journey as a professional player started out at SC Villa in Kampala back in 2004, then a top club in East Africa where he played with the likes of Kenyan footballer Oscar Kadenge. His search for fame and fortune took him to Ethiopian giants Saint George before he headed south, to the lucrative Premier Soccer League in South Africa.   A decade-long stay there has seen him turn out for SuperSport United, Mpumalanga Black Aces and Mamelodi Sundowns, his current club. While in South Africa he has dethroned big names such as Zambia number one Kennedy Mweene, win titles at both local and international level (including bagging the African title) - and above all - get recognised as Africa-based best player at the CAF awards earlier this year. Despite all this achievements the man, an imposing giant whose physical stature would scare even those American-based professional wrestlers, remains calm and as gentle as a nun when interacting with journalists at least.   He retains a signature smile to both friends and strangers, but quickly exchanges that with a serious look when answering questions. Curiously, Onyango, a father of four, also seems so attached to his fingers. During our conversation, he kept on playing with them the very way a toddler would. “I was born and brought up in Kampala. As a family we rarely went to Busia, in fact, I have been there like only six or seven times since I was born,” he told Nation Sport at the reception lounge of the five star Hotel du Parc in Port Gentil. This statement more or less puts to bed the long standing belief among some Kenyan football followers that Onyango is from Kenya. Onyango was at his usual best between the sticks during Uganda’s identical 1-0 losses to Ghana and Egypt and 1-1 draw with Mali that knocked them out at group stage. He came up with customary point black saves that kept the East African powerhouse in the game until he was beaten from the penalty spot by West Ham United star Dede Ayew for the only goal of the game against losing semi-finalists Ghana.   Interestingly, this was Uganda’s first defeat to Ghana in seven competitive games. A quiet follower of Kenyan football and especially the Kenyan Premier League during his free time, Onyango advises his Kenyan counterparts - not to fear Ghana - when the two teams meet in the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations qualifiers later this year. “I watch the Kenyan Premier League matches on SuperSport channel 209 whenever I have time. I follow most of Gor Mahia games because they have several Ugandans and especially my friend (Geoffrey) Walusimbi. “At times I wonder why Harambee Stars do not perform well. Maybe the federation should do something about this. He adds: “When playing against Ghana,  Kenya will need to fight. You can respect them but you cannot afford to fear them. Also remember the home games are crucial and Harambee Stars have to win all of them to stand a chance.” Interestingly, Onyango on his own volition mentions his village mate, albeit from the other side of the border, Victor Wanyama for more than three occasions during the interview. Despite the Kenyan being four years his junior, Onyango says Wanyama is an inspiration. He also reserves word of praise for Zesco United striker Jesse Were, an opponent he faced twice in the semi-final of the Africa Champions League last year. “I have played against Wanyama twice before and straight away you can see his quality. “He is an inspiration to me and many of us. Jesse Were too is doing wonders in Zambia which is a top African league. He is top quality and that is a hint of how good Kenya can be,” Onyango says. In his free time, Onyango says he is not the partying type and would rather stay at home and watch a movie or bond with his family. He is considering international retirement and drive his team around. Crucially, the veteran Ugandan goalie hints at retirement from national team assignments, and the eagerness to seek an another opportunity in Asia if the right opportunity comes along. “I will make up my mind (on whether I retire from the national team or not) after the Africa Cup of Nations. At the moment however all my focus is on the Nations Cup and especially winning the next two games against Egypt and Mali because that isnt an easy assignment,” he says, and adds: “Of course, I am still ambitious and if a chance comes to play somewhere else, I would consider it, money is also important and with the football climate at the moment you see players leaving Europe to go to Asia, it means Asia is where the money is, primarily if a club in Asia can agree with my club, I would be open to a move for greener pastures. Eventually, Onyango still hopes to remain engaged in football as an administrator.  