Clearing and forwarding agents in Mombasa are demanding the resignation of their officials and fresh elections held. The agents who demonstrated to push for issuance of trading licenses, accused officials of their umbrella body, the Kenya International Freight and Warehousing Association (Kifwa) of failing to agitate for their rights. They also blamed the officials of working with the Kenya Revenue Authority (KRA) to frustrate them. The agents blamed the delay by KRA to vet and issue them with this year’s trading licenses on the officials’ “ineffectiveness” and demanded that the resignation of their officials to pave way for fresh elections. KRA has however said that the process was ongoing and that the agents would be issued with the licenses. The more than 300 agents, who held a demonstration from their offices at Maritime House to the regional headquarters at Uhuru na Kazi building and demanded to be addressed by Coast Regional Coordinator Nelson Marwa. HAVE GRIEVANCES ADDRESSED They were however addressed by county commissioner Evans Achoki who assured them that their grievances would be addressed. Achoki said he would call a meeting between their representatives and KRA to iron out the differences. Later, they were addressed by KRA southern regional manager Nicholas Kinoti who said the agents would get a feedback from the taxman by end of this week. Mr Mike Mwakio, a clearing agent, however said the officials were to blame for the stalemate, adding that they did not have the mandate of representing them. The Kifwa national office led by chairman Auni Bhaiji is in office pending determination of a court case that last year challenged their election. The other officials are vice chairman Eric Gitonga, Secretary Philip Arunga who resigned on Tuesday and Francis Omondi (Treasurer). “The chairman and his team does not have the interests of the agents at heart, this explains why there has been a communication breakdown between us and the taxman. Whenever they hold talks with KRA, the officials are out to malign the clearing and forwarding fraternity,” Mr Mwakio said. “Our officials have decided to work with KRA to frustrate and kick us out of business,” added Roy Mwanthi, the association’s former Mombasa branch chairman. But Mr Bhaiji has however, defended his team saying they were trying to streamline operations in a sector that had been infiltrated by quacks whom he said had tainted the image of the freight logistics business.  