Q.I am 28 years, working as a manager in one of the supermarket chains in Kenya. Over the last six years, I have been transferred four times. These relocations have come with major disruptions to my young family. I suspect that these transfers will also affect my career growth. Further, the transfers are non-negotiable. I’m tired of moving, but I need to keep this job. What should I do?  First and foremost, you have progressed in your career. This means you are a diligent worker and possess competencies that endear you to your employer. These transfers are to enable you pass on the skills and competences you possess to the staff in the other branches. I would like to dispel your fears on the perceived negative effect on your career growth. On the contrary, the challenges you encounter in the different branches actually develop your skills and competencies further, especially growing teams and solving problems. This can only spur your career growth, either within the supermarket, or in a different organisation. That said, for you to be effective as a manager, you require a minimum of three years in a branch to see the fruits of your effort in terms of customer numbers and growth in the revenue generated in the branches. From your question, it is clear that you are moved hardly before you settle down. I am not sure you have had noticeable impact in any of the branches you have been to. I presume when you are transferred, the company incurs costs of the relocation in form of relocation allowances, transport and other associated costs. It may shock management to see how much they have paid out in a period of six years vis a vis the impact of the transfer to the branches. My advice would be you articulate the challenges that you have encountered in each branch and indicate how many you have resolved successfully in the short duration you were in the branch. Indicate how many more you would have resolved if you would have been in the branch for say, five years. Also include the impact the transfers have had on your family. Armed with these facts, your employer should be able to see the light.  