Deputy President William Ruto says the crackdown on drug barons and dealers in Mombasa is to continue until they are wiped out. "All those who have been involved in ruining the lives of millions of our youth in Mombasa and elsewhere in Kenya, have nowhere to hide, anymore," Mr Ruto said while addressing a crowd in Likoni Saturday morning. "We will crackdown on them until we completely eradicate this drug menace and deal with those behind it," he added. The Deputy President who spoke while on his way to Kwale on a voter drive also condemned demolition of kiosks and stalls on Friday night by the county government. He questioned the motive of the demolition, on the eve of his arrival in the area, and accused the county of "mistreating" ordinary people carrying out legal business. "It is not possible that this happened when I am here, as the Deputy President of Kenya," he said and asked County Commissioner Evans Achoki to report to him the reasons for the demolition and report to him by 4pm. "The county commissioner and the police must refuse to be used to oppress the people," he said and asked Mombasa residents to vote out Governor Hassan Joho and his government over "poor leadership." He told those who were yet to register as voters to do so and ensure that they kick out the Joho administration in the August 8 General Election. "Kiboko ya mambo kama haya ni kura. Chuma chao kiko motoni, (the only solution to cure such things is through the ballot. They are in trouble," said the Deputy President. Likoni MP Masoud Mwahima raised the issue, accusing the county government of illegally demolishing stalls and kiosks on Friday night without giving notice. He accused the Joho administration of malice. Last week, President Uhuru Kenyatta also speaking in Likoni, sounded a tough warning to drug dealers in Mombasa, saying they would be rounded up and punished in a fresh crackdown by government. Mr Kenyatta spoke just three days after two sons of drug baron Akasha and two foreigners were picked up from Mombasa and extradited to the United States over drug trafficking claims. The four are being held by security agencies in New York.  