Despite spending two nights in prison, officials of the doctors union said they would not soften their stand on better terms. On Wednesday, Kenya Medical Practitioners, Pharmacists and Dentists Union Secretary-General Ouma Oluga said the officials’ fight to improve health in Kenya was not shaken. “It is impossible to break our resolve. It is time the government knew that we need a solution. That solution is based on the CBA,” he said soon after stepping out of Kamiti Prison. He also called on the Health cabinet and principal secretaries to demonstrate leadership by improving healthcare. “It is unfortunate that the minister, the PS and Cabinet can be comfortably going about their business when Kenyans cannot access healthcare. They have no sympathy for the people they claim to represent,” said Dr Oluga, who was with members of the union. Dr Oluga and six other union officials were found guilty of contempt on Monday and sentenced to one month in prison. The others are chairman Samuel Oroko and members Daisy Korir, Evelyne Chege, Allan Ochanji, Mwachonda Chibandzi and Titus Ondoro. Earlier, in a consent recorded in court, it was agreed that KMPDU officials be freed, pending the hearing and determination of the appeal against their sentence. It was also agreed that the union, governors, the Law Society of Kenya and the Kenya National Commission on Human Rights hold talks aimed at restoring normality in public health. The parties also tasked the LSK and the commission to spearhead the talks and present a report in court within seven days. The report should have a return-to-work formula. Before the consent was reached, judges asked lawyers who had filled the courtroom to step outside to make a proposal on how the matter touching on the freedom of the union officials could be handled. The court also asked the lawyers to agree on the way forward and have it recorded as a consent since arguments in the case were bound to be a back-and-forth scenario. Mr Philip Murgor, Mr James Orengo and Mr Mutula Kilonzo Jr led the team of lawyers representing union in the appeal case. Soon after the order to free the doctors was given, Cord leader Raila Odinga who was in court, asked Kenyans “to vote for leaders who uphold human rights”. He termed the jailing of union officials shameful. The matter will now be mentioned on February 23.  Report by Stella Cherono, Elizabeth Merab and Maureen Kakah.   The Nairobi Hospital and Mater among facilities that heeded KMA call.