Q.I am 27 years old. I returned from my studies abroad a year ago and got a job with a quality assurance agency as a standardisation expert. My co-workers are overbearing, but that just seems to be the culture here, something I have found hard to adapt to. At first I thought I would be able to gel with time, but I continue to be a frustrated young woman. Should I look for a job elsewhere or is there a chance for me to adjust?  Workplace culture is not only about how employees dress and communicate to one another; it is also about attitudes, common language, values and behaviour. Since it is created over time, it is not the easiest to change without commitment from all players. You do not specify in what way you find your colleagues overbearing, but I can think of a few things that may cause discomfort if not addressed. From unclear goals, poor performance assessment process, favouritism, poor employee relations and disciplinary processes to poor work ethics, corruption, bullying and harassment. All these and many others make a work environment overbearing. In your shoes, I would firstly never compromise my values for the sake of fitting in. You are young, talented, and intelligent and deserve a work environment that gives you an opportunity to thrive and grow your career. You ask if you should adjust to fit in, and my answer is no. Instead of compromising your values, how about being the change agent? This organisation needs a few people to speak out on unacceptable workplace practices, and give proposals on what may bring positive change. You could try this before you jump ship. You can channel your ideas through your line manager. You can also organise talks with your colleagues and discuss challenges and provide solutions. Every positive change originates from those who refuse to accept the status quo and instead choose to be the change they long to see. Your other question is if you should jump ship. My advice is yes, you should seriously consider this. Visualise your career goals and ask yourself if your current employer is a suitable enabler of this plan. If they are not keen to listen to your ideas, you are better off seeking an environment that nurtures your skills and gives you the right experience in support of your goals.  