The exponential growth of professional football in Africa can loosely be attested to the major international sponsorships and endorsements from the greater sports industries around the world. Betway Sports plays a key part in the expansion and development of sports in Africa and have been especially visible in the success of the Kenyan football arena. The Betway Sports Group was launched in 2006, and is a leading provider of sports betting, casino and poker entertainment. Betway has now announced their official sponsorship of the partnership between Ghana’s Ashanti Gold and the English Premier League side West Ham United. This international sponsorship deal will fundamentally provide a direct link between the Obuasi-based club to West Ham, with larger injections to the existing training pitches and facilities that Ashanti Gold currently have at their academy. Ashanti Gold is one of the most successful Ghanaian Premier League teams, and is one of the top three clubs in the country’s top-flight division. Betway’s decision to back this partnership will definitely guarantee increased international exposure to more players and coaches, better development of academy facilities and training for young, upcoming football stars. Evidence of the Betway Group’s substantial contributions to the growth and expansion of sports in Africa is Betway Kenya’s sponsorship of former Harambee Stars striker and current brand ambassador Dennis Oliech, who was afforded the opportunity to attend a one-week professional coaching workshop in South Africa – just one of the ways to spur further development of Kenyan football. Betway Sports have also increased their sponsorship to 2008 Kenyan Premier League champions Mathare United to continue the use of their logo on their gear. With these significant endorsements, sports lovers are exposed to more than just an online betting forum; the Group makes an important impact and investment to Kenyan sports with much-needed cash injections for various aspects including training of new coaches, upgrading of stadiums and pitches, youth and social development and bringing further knowledge to the Kenyan sports scene which ultimately opens local leagues to the broader global community. GIVE GUIDANCE Betway Kenya aims to position Mathare United for further success, giving guidance to the team’s operational management, and by enhancing technical capabilities with its international networks and experience there will be a definite motivator for player acquisition and retention.   Betway Sports is a prolific online sports betting site, where novice and experienced gamers can bet online or stay updated with their favourite sports teams’ scores. The site provides insights to an array of sporting classes, and players can easily bet on their favourite teams, or individuals, with real-time updates and the safest online deposit methods. Betway makes it even easier to bet online with a high-tech mobile app, allowing gamers to access their accounts, place bets, claim bonuses and promotions right on their mobile device without any hassle. All the exciting sporting action is available in the palm of sports lovers’ hands, including other online gaming options like poker, casino slots, e-sports and more. New players get a fantastic welcome offer to try their hand at any of the gaming and betting options. Regular tips and promotions ensure customers are kept on their toes and continue their winning streak with real cash pay-outs.   There’s more to online gaming than meets the eye, and Betway Sports proves their commitment to social development with their continued support to Kenyan football through sponsorship and endorsement, and offering their ambassadors bigger and better opportunities both locally and internationally. Betway will also be expanding its reach to South Africa in 2017.  