The pooh-pooh theory represents one of man’s desperate attempts to understand the origin of language. According to its proponents, language has its roots in man’s attempt to express his indignation and contempt, among other feelings. From simple interjections like “oh” and “ah”, the vocabulary we use to express outrage has grown tremendously. Today, many of these words are, of course, unprintable. This theory was at play on social media on Thursday and Friday in the wake of news that one man in Nairobi was taking another to court in a case involving a woman and her child. Kenyans on Twitter were on a roll, exploring all possibilities of language to express their righteous indignation and gloat over the facts of the case involving the Deputy President. Judging from their comments, the general feeling among the Twitterati was that sowing wild oats is an aberration. But what would anthropologists, sociologists and primatologists, have to say about this human behaviour? First, let us examine the idea that every man is at heart an imperialist. So that we are on the same page, let us assume that by imperialism we mean the ability of a man or country to extend their power and influence by use of either force or diplomacy. In prehistoric times, any man could attack his neighbour and take over his possessions, including appropriating his family. For obvious reasons, this type of imperialism involved beheading both the neighbour and his sons. BECAME EVIDENT However, the danger with this trend soon became evident. If a man killed all his immediate neighbours, a marauding band of other war-like men could overrun his home, seize his livestock and take over his family. If the man was not lucky, the raiders would carry his head on a stake to serve as a trophy, and a warning to others. By taking over the women of their victims, the gangs not only became wealthier but also increased their gene pool, making them even stronger. Of course, women also acquired the language of the conquering bands. That meant if you were stronger, more people spoke your language. You also increased the number of potential mates. Because this trend was posing a threat to social order, men had to invent a system that would bring sanity in the way each acquired their wealth and expanded their families. That is why it became necessary to invent both religion and the law. Religion appealed to the conscience. As we know, conscience is the little voice that tells you what you are doing is wrong even if no one is watching. The law on the other hand imposes punishment if there is enough evidence to convict you for a wrongdoing. So if you kill your neighbour and appropriate his wealth and family, there are consequences, which might include giving the State power to take your own life. MALE IMPERIALISM Although religion and the law restored social order and basically enforced honour among men, they did not address the innate idea of male imperialism. As such, men had to devise new ways to expand their territories while remaining within the limits of the law and religion. When either the law or religion was not sufficient to tame man’s proclivities, man did not change. Instead, he changed the law and religion to satisfy the desires of his heart. That is how, for instance, capitalism came to be. You could become wealthy without killing your neighbour. Some cultures also allow one to change partners without offending moral law. The natural world as we know it is replete with numerous studies showing how primates acquire mates. Animals such as Bonobos share 98 per cent of their gene code with human beings. The only two major differences are that man can speak and he can also use sophisticated tools. As such, if you want to understand why men behave as they do, all you need to do is read that book by Cacilda Jethá and Christopher Ryan. Don’t ask me which, Google will. Looked at historically and scientifically, the reaction of Kenyans on Twitter is curious. But then again, this particular case involves a public figure. Whereas society generally frowns on such men, the key to find a solution to this problem lies in curing the original sin of imperialism. Otherwise we will be casting stones while living in glass houses.  Ng'ang'a Mbugua is editor, 'Saturday Nation'. jmbugua@ke.nationmedia.com Twitter: @NgangaMbugua   Always tell the truth because it sets you free.