At 64 years, Mr Kalonzo Musyoka has been there and done that on the political front, and only one leadership position has eluded him so far – that of President. A 32-year veteran of politics, Mr Musyoka has been an assistant minister or minister almost all his political life. He was also the country’s 10th Vice-President between 2008 and 2013. He served as the deputy speaker of the National Assembly and Kanu National Organising Secretary. In short, Mr Musyoka has been in politics for half his entire life and in government for most of that period. Then he stepped out to form the Wiper Democratic Movement after being shunted aside by the Jubilee juggernaut in 2013. Now he wants back in. Judging from the way he has been comporting himself of late, Mr Kalonzo may still get his way, for he seems to have scented blood. He is on a warpath and has re-invented himself from a suave, urbane, clean-cut political operator into a fire-breathing, give-no-quarter combatant, one whose eyes are firmly trained on the prize. In a few short months, the transformation has been amazing. Mr Musyoka has become a formidable Jubilee foe and those, whether in Nasa or in the ruling party, who have been dismissing him lightly may have to rethink their opinion of the man from Tseikuru. NOT COMFORTABLE Even if he does not have the numbers to rival those of his rivals in Jubilee or his allies in the super-alliance, Mr Musyoka has been behaving with a confidence that indicates he is no longer comfortable being in anyone’s shadow. Apparently, he believes he has what it takes to become the top honcho, and is going all out for it. Whether he knows something we don’t or he has come to realise that this may be his last-ditch effort to become President, he has all of a sudden become the alternative face of the Opposition. He has been stealing a great deal of thunder from the man for long regarded as the first among equals, Mr Raila Odinga. Whether this is by design or is a well-executed subterfuge is difficult to tell. It is not lost on anyone that a few months ago, the feisty Mr Musyoka would not have publicly told off his boisterous lieutenants who have been behaving as though they own Wiper. In many ways, he has become his own man and those characters must be feeling the heat. It has been a fascinating makeover, but the man must start weighing his words more carefully. For instance, his comments after Amina Mohamed, the Cabinet Secretary for Foreign Affairs and International Trade, failed in her bid to become chairperson of the African Union Commission were grossly insensitive and uncalled for. . Her disappointment should not have been equated with the alleged failures of the Jubilee administration. *** It is ironic that at a time the whole country is going through the ravages of a pronounced drought, we should be planning to host the first Africa Postharvest Conference at the end of March. During the conference under the theme “Reducing Food Losses and Waste; Solutions for Africa”, more than 500 delegates will devise strategies on how to store food and avoid waste which consumes an estimated 30 per cent of all our harvests. It is expected that the delegates will give their views on how to avoid losing harvested food to weevils and other bugs, birds of the air, rodents and other vermin. REDUCING MOISTURE As a result, novel ways of building granaries and more efficient ways of reducing moisture should be on the agenda. Such discussions are important for Africa in many ways. Food insecurity has joined a long queue of challenges afflicting the continent. Other ills include ignorance, disease, poverty and endemic corruption. If people can have enough to eat every day, they can overcome all the rest, except, of course, corruption which is a major pastime of those who already have more than enough food. The conference should be an eye-opener to policymakers, for we simply cannot afford to keep losing a third of all the food grown to preventable causes. Our people are not starving because the government has failed to feed them. It is not the role of government to feed its citizens; its job is to facilitate them so they can feed themselves.  andrewngwiri@gmail.com  