The Director of Public Prosecutions wants a case against four women facing terrorism-related charges transferred to another court claiming the current presiding magistrate is biased. Through Principal Prosecution Counsel Jami Yamina, the DPP told the High Court that the trial court has made a finding that the charges against the four women were prompted by mischief and malice after they were granted bond in another case. “The prosecution is facing a pre-determined decision, if the court has established charges are improper, no matter the amount of evidence and witnesses, we can only expect an acquittal,” said Mr Yamina. Mr Yamina told Justice Dora Chepkwony that there is sufficient evidence for the court to find that there is "real" bias from the trial court. The prosecutor wants the court to find out whether the magistrate properly evaluated the evidence when he released the four women on bond. Mr Yamina wants the court to find out whether the magistrate has jurisdiction to question the exercise of discretion by the prosecution on the manner of preferring charges. “If the trial court had looked at the compelling reasons in a standard of probability and guided by other considerations, we believe it (trial court) could not have arrived at the decision,” said Mr Yamina. 'FORUM SHOPPING' On January 26, Principal magistrate Henry Nyakweba released Ummulkheir Sadri Abdalla, Khadija Abubakar Abdulkadir, Maryam Said Aboud and Halima Adan Ali on a Sh500,000 bond each. Through their lawyer Hamisi Mwazogo, the accused said the prosecution had not told the court that the release of the accused on bond was illegal. “All that the state has submitted is their dissatisfaction with [the magistrate’s decision], the avenue for the state to address itself is an appeal,” said Mr Mwazogo. He told the court that the prosecution did not have the courtesy to make an application before the magistrate to disqualify himself. He called the prosecution's plea to have the case transferred to another court as "forum shopping". The accused have denied 20 terrorism charges against them, including possessing videos and pictures of Al-Qaeda leaders Osama Bin Laden and Ayman Al-Zawahiri. Prosecutors said the accused were arrested on March 27, 2015, at the Elwak boarder point in Mandera while attempting to sneak into Somalia. In another case, the accused have denied being members of terrorist group Al-Shabaab.   It was alleged that they were arrested at Elwak border point in Mandera County.