The Confederation of African Football Tuesday issued tough conditions that must be met by the Uasin Gishu County Government before Eldoret’s Kipchoge Keino Stadium is approved to host the Africa Nations Championship matches next year. Among the conditions, that must be met in the next eight months, are the installation of a proper drainage system in the stadium and the building of a standard terrace. This must be achieved by October this year. Construction work at the stadium is expected to start next week. The Eldoret International Airport was, however, approved by the Caf officials who visited the Stadium Tuesday. “We have inspected six hotels. We are also looking at the training grounds not forgetting hospitals. We are quite satisfied with the airport because the airport is one of the key things we must consider. They will avoid the situation as it was in Rwanda where there were long trips, teams having to travel over 250 kilometres to the airport,” said Herbert Mwachiro, the deputy chief executive officer for the Africa Nations Championship 2018 tournament. The second phase for the renovation of the stadium includes building the terraces, two pavilions, entry and exits gates, changing rooms and an indoor games hall. “According to the regulations, the stadium, at a minimum, must have four changing rooms for teams and two changing rooms for referees. There must be offices and space for media. Mwachiro led a team of Caf officials, including the confederation’s event director Mohammed El Shawarby, to inspect the stadium that will cost the county government and sports ministry Sh304 million to upgrade to international standards in order to be among the four stadiums required for the tournament. Other things required are VIP lounges and numbered seats. “One of the things that Caf and (world football governing body) Fifa are advocating for is that the stadium must have numbered seating so that there is control of both entry and exit from the stadium to avoid overcrowding. Safety is a key issue in football,” explained Mwachiro. “We have received assurance from both the national and county government that they are ready to upgrade the stadium,” said Mwachiro during the inspection of the stadium. Uasin Gishu County Sports Chief Officer Eunice Kerich said the devolved unit was working round the clock to meet all the conditions set for them. “We are determined as a county to deliver on the requirements needed. Two weeks ago we handed over this stadium to the contractor and he is expected to start work anytime from now,” said Kerich.  