After signing a pact to face Jubilee as one team in the August 8 elections, Opposition leader Raila Odinga and his co-principals now face a nomination headache so as to ensure wrangles do not tear apart their nascent alliance especially in the coalition’s strongest support bases of Nyanza and Western. Mr Musalia Mudavadi of Amani National Congress, Mr Moses Wetang’ula of Ford-Kenya, Mr Kalonzo Musyoka of Wiper and Mr Odinga on Wednesday formally formed the National Super Alliance, but nomination rules were not spelled out. The coalition’s technical committee has now retreated to craft nomination rules to ensure the fall outs following the do-or-die duels will not undermine their chances of beating Jubilee during the General Election slated for August 8 which experts predict to be one of the most competitive in history. In the past, shoddy nominations have gone ahead to haunt parties at the elections where disgruntled voters stayed away from the ballot effectively hurting turnout which can often determine the winner. MAJOR DILEMMA Mr Odinga’s challenges in Nyanza and western are two-prong. First he is faced with a major dilemma of retaining his close confidants, some of whom are facing fierce opposition from their opponents, and then there are his coalition partners Mr Mudavadi and Mr Wetang’ula who are fielding strong candidates in some of the constituencies. Despite numerous echoes by the Nasa co-principals and senior ODM officials that the nominations will be free and fair, there are fears that the party is not ready to let go some seasoned politicians, among them Mr Odinga’s advisers, strategists, close allies and family members. In Kisumu, Senator Anyang’ Nyong’o, a close confidant of Mr Odinga,  is giving Governor Jack Ranguma a run for his money. Sources close to Mr Ranguma had even hinted that he would opt for another party, claims he has vehemently denied. PARTY HOPPING There were also claims Mr Ranguma was behind the Council of Governor’s court case challenging the law that bars party hopping as far as 120 days to the polls. The candidature of Kisumu deputy governor Ruth Odinga, Mr Odinga’s younger sister, who is also eying the governor’s seat is also causing jitters in the race. In Siaya, Governor Cornel Rasanga, who is perceived as an ODM loyalist is also facing a stiff challenge from Rarieda MP Nicholas Gumbo and his erstwhile opponent in the 2013 elections, businessman William Oduol. Vocal Gem MP Jakoyo Midiwo has thrown his weight behind Mr Gumbo while Mr Odinga’s elder brother,  Dr Oburu Oginga supports Mr Rasanga’s re-election. Dr Oginga’s candidature for the Bondo parliamentary seat is also causing jitters as there are fears he could be favoured against the incumbent Gideon Ochanda. STIFF COMPETITION In Homa Bay, ODM national chairman John Mbadi, is facing competition from Mr Odinga’s ally Caroli Omondi who was his Chief of Staff as Prime Minister. In Migori County, incumbent Governor Zacchary Obado is said to be enjoying support of Mr Odinga’s wife Ida. Both come from Uriri Constituency. Mr Obado is however, facing a tough contest from Mr Odinga’s ally, former minister Ochillo Ayacko. In Kisii County, South Mugirango MP Manson Nyamweya was forced to decamp from ODM to Kenya National Congress (KNC) to face off with Governor James Ongwae in the August 8 election. Area woman representative Mary Otara jumped ship to Jubilee after nominated Senator Janet Ong’era, a close confidant of Mr Odinga and popular politician in ODM circles, declared interest in the seat. For Mr Nyamweya, who is the KNC party leader, said: “KNC supports Nasa with preference for ODM leader Raila Odinga as its flag bearer. However, should the majority decide otherwise, we will back whoever will be fronted as the Nasa presidential candidate.” POLITICAL CANNIBALISM Mr Odinga is also facing a dilemma in Busia County where he is torn between incumbent Governor Sosepeter Ojamoong’ and vocal Funyula MP Paul Otuoma. There is also fear of political cannibalism in Nasa where ANC and Ford Kenya have also produced candidates in Western. The vote-rich Kakamega County is the main focus where Mr Odinga’s deputy Wycliffe Oparanya will be battling with Ford Kenya’s deputy party leader Boni Khalwale for the governor’s seat. Mr Odinga and Mr Wetang’ula are both Nasa principals and it is not clear how they will handle the fragile issue that could cause strain relationships in the opposition. A similar scenario is also playing out in Vihiga County, the home turf of ANC leader Mudavadi where ODM is likely to front Emuhaya MP Wilbur Otichillo. The duo will face off with incumbent Moses Akaranga of Progressive Party of Kenya (PPK) who has vowed to back a Nasa presidential candidate. ODM executive director Oduor Ong’wen said there was no cause for alarm. CREDIBLE NOMINATIONS “We have put in place adequate strategies that I cannot disclose to the media to ensure free, fair and credible nominations. There will be no sacred cows. In Kenya, we have seen even Vice Presidents falling and it will not be a surprise if that happens in ODM primaries,” Mr Ong’wen said. In Nairobi, there have been discontent in Kibra constituency where Mr Odinga’s elder daughter Rosemary Odinga is seeking to oust MP Ken Okoth. Of interest are numerous complaints raised by former Mr Odinga’s aide Eliud Owalo who had alleged of a plot to hand Ms Odinga the ODM ticket. Dr Zani however, insisted nobody will be favoured in the primaries. In Mombasa, another Mr Odinga’s deputy - Governors Hassan Joho is facing stiff challenge from Wiper secretary general Hassan Omar. CAMPAIGNS AGAINST EACH OTHER In Garissa Township, former National assembly speaker Farah Maalim who is currently the Wiper deputy party leader after defecting from ODM will face off with Nasir Dolal of ODM after Mr Odinga endorsed him. It is not clear how the principals will handle the situation which could see their close allies’ stage major campaigns against each other. The move is likely to cost the alliance seats especially in the cosmopolitan regions like Nairobi County to monolith Jubilee party’s advantage. Ford Kenya Secretary General Eseli Simiyu however, moved to downplay the situation saying there was no cause for alarm as the 12 – member Nasa technical committee formulated the best approach to deal with the condition. On its part, Mr Musyoka’s Wiper has put in place an appeal system where those who will feel dissatisfied with the primaries’ results will file their appeals before the winner presents the nominations certificate to the IEBC. “We want everyone to agree that they have lost even if it’s by one vote. Normally fallouts happen when nominations   Opposition leaders will hold a rally in Eldoret on Saturday.