Football Kenya Federation President Nick Mwendwa will meet Confederation of African Football (Caf) officials this weekend to update them on Kenya’s preparations towards hosting the 2018 African Nations Championship. Mwendwa will be in Libreville for the final of the Africa Cup of Nations tournament, after which he will meet Caf officials to discuss Kenya’s prospects of hosting the regional competition. Mwendwa told Nation Sport that he will seek to assure Caf officials of the country’s commitment to hosting the event to prevent Kenya from losing the hosting rights. He, however, admitted to certain challenges in getting unequivocal government support even as he remained hopeful that the African football administrators will not change their mind regarding Kenya’s bid. “I am praying that this (hosting rights) doesn’t go to anyone else. I will be at the (Africa Cup of Nations) finals in Gabon and after that I will meet the necessary officials to convince them that we are still willing and able to host the competition. “There are things that have not been done by our government, but I hope that I will have sufficient supporting documents for my presentation. “The government has promised to discuss and possibly ratify the budget in the next cabinet sitting and now I am trying very hard to get the Local Organising Committee to be gazetted and to get the government’s consent before I travel (to Gabon),” Mwendwa said on Thursday. Mwendwa’s date with Caf officials has been necessitated by concern from Caf secretary Hicham El Amrani. The fear of losing the bid to Ethiopia is now real, as Ethiopia have four newly built stadiums befitting Caf standards, and are eager and willing to host the event. On the other hand, Kenya remains stuck on budgetary allocation as none of the existing stadia fits Caf minimum requirements. The Safaricom Stadium in Kasarani, Nairobi’s Nyayo National Stadium, Kipchoge Keino in Eldoret and Mbaraki Stadium in Mombasa had been floated to host the event, but even Kasarani still needs a facelift on its playing surface.   Muhoroni Youth and Sofapaka football club chairmen have vowed “through all means” to contest Football Kenya Federation’s decision to demote them to the lower tier league.