A research carried out in the US by CareerBuilder, a job search platform, only 47 per cent of graduates got a first job related to what they studied in school, while a further 32 per cent ended up never working in a career related to their university majors. The reasons for this include lack of employment opportunities in their fields of study, a loss of interest in their career choice, and choosing to pursue their passion, rather than what they actually studied. This week, we interview four young individuals who are happy in careers that are a far cry from what they studied in college.   ROBERT ASIMBA, 27 Robert is a telecommunication engineer who is now working in the film industry. “When I completed secondary school, all I knew was that I wanted to tell stories, and that would mean becoming a journalist, a career my parents were against. Having scored B+, and having an engineer in the family, my brother, who we were all proud of, my parents were convinced that I too should become an engineer. Initially, I had no idea what a telecommunication engineer does, so I had to do lots of research. I joined the Kenya Institute of Mass Communication, KIMC, and ended up embracing the course along the way, and was even among those that graduated  top of my class. After graduation, I got a job with Safaricom, installing internet in buildings within the CBD. I did this for a few months and then I got restless. I decided to pursue film to the utter shock of not only my parents, but my former classmates, who did not foresee this. While this switch was a shock to many, it was a well-thought out plan on my side. While I was nearing completion of my studies, I had started volunteering in church, Nairobi Chapel, as a camera operator. My curiosity in the line of film grew over time, aided by the tons of research I did on YouTube. In my quest to find out as much as I could about my newly found passion, I met Connie Donlon, a film maker from Canada, at Nairobi chapel. Through her guidance, I got to learn a lot, and with time, made up my mind to fully pursue film as a profession. My parents thankfully supported my decision, something that gave me a big boost while starting out. It is through their support that I have managed to succeed in this industry so far.” It is now four years since Robert got his foot into the film sector. If you are looking for a scriptwriter, director, cinematographer and editor, Robert is your man. Under his belt so far are short films; Spensa and Confession, which were nominated in an international competition, My Rode Reel Short Film Competition in 2015 and 2016. Earlier in the year, the films scooped two awards at the Riverwood awards in the best male category and best sound. Are you in a job or career that you are not passionate about? Says Robert, “By all means follow your passion, but before you walk away from your job, have a plan and be sure that what you are jumping into is something that you are willing to do anything for to succeed.”   NITA THUO (MONITAH), 24 Prior to her graduation, unlike many of her peers, Nita had already gotten a job in a digital marketing firm. When she graduated with a bachelor’s degree in Gender and Development, (she minored in psychology) from Kenyatta University in 2015, she was not under pressure to look for a job. A few months after graduation however, Nita quit her job to pursue a career as a singer, songwriter and poet. “My university experience was a journey of self-discovery for me. As much as I enjoyed the course I was studying and the knowledge that I gained, I did not foresee myself pursuing a career in it, therefore I was constantly on the lookout for opportunities that would interest me,” she says. When the opportunity to work for a digital agency come about therefore, Nita grabbed it. At the forefront however, was her interest in music and poetry, and she knew that in the long run, this is what she would do full time. “I enjoyed music, and even as I did these other things, I made an effort to fit my music in, such that it would sometimes eat into my work hours. With time, I realised that my work and my passion were losing out, since my focus was divided. Eventually, I chose music.” Choosing music as her main pursuit surprised her friends, but not her parents, who had watched her nurture her dream of making music for years, and therefore supported her decision. “I am fortunate that I came to the realisation that it is important to pursue what you are passionate about early enough. While at university I regularly practiced my art, and whenever I performed I was in a state of happiness, and I knew that this is something I would want to do for the rest of my life.” Nita is currently in the final stages of working on her debut EP, and plans to start working on her first album this year. Some of the venues she has performed at include Ink Overflow and The Juniper kitchen. Her singles include Barua, Utopia, Moonlight Bloom, and Love Yours. “What makes me happier besides doing what I do is that I am now able to earn a living through my music, mostly through performances.” If you would like to make a career out of what you are passionate about but are afraid of how people will react, or whether you will succeed, Nita says, “Stop comparing yourself with your friends and focusing on what others are doing, otherwise you will lose sight of what is really important. There are various paths to success, focus on yours, be consistent, give it your all, and you will get there.”    BEN KIBET, 24 Having graduated in 2015 with a bachelor’s degree in finance from Strathmore university, Ben had high expectations of getting not just a job, but a good job in a reputable company. At the time of his graduation, he was studying to become a Certified Public Accountant, CPA, which most employers in this field consider an added advantage. Once he graduated, he sent application after application to several companies, and was invited to several interviews, but no job was forthcoming. “A few times, I got an offer, but the remuneration package did not match the job description - this was quite frustrating because at the time, the friends I graduated with were all getting coveted employment opportunities in reputable firms. Here I was, with the same grade and abilities yet none was coming my way.” Ben was at the point of giving in to frustration when a friend came to his aid. “He told me that as I waited to get a job, I could seek other opportunities; he suggested that I try out Uber, (an online transportation network) since I had a driving license,” he explains. By then, it was close to eight months after graduation. He followed his friend’s advice and looked for someone who was in the business and was in need of a driver. He started his new job in October 2015, determined to give it his best shot. As expected, he got varied reactions from all corners. While some of his former classmates were supportive, there are those who looked down on him, wondering why he had stooped so low. “Once in a while, I came across former classmates as I went about my job, some genuinely encouraged me, but there are those who considered me a failure, and were baffled by why they had managed to secure employment while I had not,” he explains. His parents too were disappointed, having spent a substantial amount of money on his education, sure that he would get a ‘respectable’ job, yet here he was, a taxi driver. “They were embarrassed to talk about what I did - I fully understood where they were coming from, because I too had the expectations they had when I graduated. Also, they come from a generation where a white collar job is revered.” He adds, “There is also the fact that they spent a lot of money on my education with the expectation that I would get a good job in a good company.” He had two options in the face of the mixed reactions he had to deal with, either give up his ‘lowly’ job, or keep going until something better came up. He chose to keep going. One day while ferrying a client to a meeting in August 2016, Ben narrated of his story to the client, a man who seemed impressed with not only his qualifications, but his fortitude as well. Ben had no idea who he was, but before he alighted, the man made a call and requested the person on the other end to schedule Ben for an interview. “I enjoyed chatting with my clients, but this particular one showed an interest in me, and I ended up giving him my story,” he explains. That interview, brokered by a stranger, led to Ben’s current job at CMEC African Development Limited, where he works as a marketer. “My focus is to give my best at this job, but my long-term plans are to go into business.” This is his advice to those searching for a job with no success: “Have an open mind because the job might come or not. Whatever opportunity comes along, take it and give it your all as you continue searching for better opportunities. With God everything is possible.”    CYNTHIA AGWA, 27 Having graduated with a higher diploma in PR and communication, Cynthia felt she had what it took to succeed in this field. After she completed her course, she went about looking for internship to gain experience, an opportunity that never came her way despite numerous applications. “It took me two years after completing my studies to give up on all the dreams and hope I had of working in PR and communication. I was completely shuttered because despite my credentials and no demands for remuneration, no one gave me an opportunity to show what I was capable of. I was at the brink of depression because I had done everything that I could, but had nothing to show for it.” She finally gave up and decided to assist her father to run his clinic. While working here, she decided to study culinary arts, since she enjoyed cooking. “I enjoyed trying out various recipes, so why not make a career out of it?  I joined Top Chefs Culinary Institute, where I studied for two years. Unlike my first attempt at searching for a job, opportunities started coming my way almost immediately after I graduated. I now a chef in a 5-star hotel, an experience that I cherish every day because I am finally doing what I am passionate about.” These are the lessons she has learnt from her varied experiences in searching for a job. “Always seek full knowledge and understanding about the course you wish to study before applying for it. In my case, I was in a hurry to go to college, and only studied PR and communication because I thought it was interesting.” To those looking for a job that is not forthcoming, she advises: “Don’t be afraid to start all over again even if it means going back to school. At the end of the day, it is not just about status or money, but also contentment in what you do – you will only find contentment and happiness doing what you are passionate about.”  