A study has revealed that more than half of Kenyans receive bribes as voters. The research done in 10 counties, was commissioned by Centre for Multi-Party Democracy (CMD) and conducted by Konrad Adenauer Stiftung, a German NGO, found that 56 per cent of Kenyans have received bribes from politicians or their supporters. This is despite half admitting that they were aware voter bribery is a crime. The sample group was made up of 514 respondents across the counties of Machakos, Nakuru, Bomet, Meru, Migori Kilifi Kiambu, Trans-Nzoia, Kakamega, and Kisumu. Bomet leads in the number of those who have accepted bribes at 64.71 per cent while Migori had the least at 41.3 per cent. The report revealed that bribes influence choice of candidates. In view of this, Kakamega leads with 41.3 per cent of the respondents agreeing that being bribed will influence who they elect while Machakos came last at 13.04 per cent.So what exactly entails voter bribery? The report gives several practices that translate to such, including: harambees during campaigns, paying fees, hospital bills, funeral expenses for families never supported by politicians in the past, making promises of rewards such as jobs, paying those who attend political meetings, cash handouts, and distribution of clothes, khangas or caps as campaign material. The study titled “Voter Bribery as an Election Malpractice in Kenya” also sought to explain why this practice is prevalent in the country. It revealed lack of choices, a means to an end, yet in others it was so normal it had become a way of life. Aspirants on the other hand believe bribing is a way to win elections while others claimed voters demand to be bribed. This was echoed by MP Isaac Mwaura who insisted that voter bribery is part of African culture and is here to stay. “In Africa, when we give it’s seen as noble. It is how we have been cultured. The West see it as bribery. There are things you must do as a politician or you are not going anywhere,” said Mr Mwaura during the launch of the report. However, CMD chairman Omingo Magara disagreed saying: “We have to stand for something. There has to be change and the chains have to be broken.”  