Acting Kenya Footballers Welfare Association (Kefwa) chairman James Situma has bemoaned the indefinite suspension of the SportPesa Premier League owing to persistent squabbles between local football administrators.Speaking on phone Saturday on phone from England where he travelled with SportPesa All Stars for a friendly football match with Hull City, Situma, who is also the Tusker captain, said unnecessary squabbles among football administrators was derailing development of the game in Kenya. Staying in the cold (without playing) means we can t earn salary and pocket winning bonuses. Lack of playing time also derails our focus. Our coaches are also struggling because they cannot come up with a programme to prepare the teams, the Kenya international, who is part of the SportPesa All Stars team touring England, told Nation Sport.The latest round of wrangling between Football Kenya Federation and the Kenyan Premier League officials on the size and composition of the top-flight league has resulted in endless court battles, prompting the delay of the league kick-off.Situma, formerly at Sofapaka and AFC Leopards, also hit out at the squabbling administrators, saying: Whatever agenda they have behind the fights must stop and players should always come first. How can players train well when what you want is in doubt? How do you plan? Speaking separately, Western Stima coach Henry Omino has also weighed in on the debate. He said. Nobody likes what is going on now. We love the game and want to get on the pitch and start playing. My wish is that a solution is arrived at soon enough. Similar expressions were aired by ardent football fan Jarius Abong o aka Jaro Soja, who seldom misses local football games involving Gor Mahia. It is about time the supporters started putting pressure on this officials to enable them come up with the fixtures (for the games) so that the competition can start. What is happening isn t good for the game but the administrators don t seem to care. email print email print The 25,400-seater multi-purpose facility has been in existence for only 15 years. Mr Pkosing said Jubilee, with or without Kanu, will still win the polls. He said the report will be used to rectify the situation.