Kenya has topped the list of the country with the cleanest air in the world. A report by Eco Experts ranks Kenya as the least toxic country worldwide basing on data from the International Energy Agency and World Health Organization (WHO). The study took into account air pollution, energy consumption and renewable energy production as per WHO data. The Eco Experts found that Sub-Saharan Africa countries were the cleanest in the world. The less toxic countries were, Kenya, Tanzania, Ethiopia, Mozambique, Cameroon, Zambia, Indonesia, Zimbabwe, Brazil and Congo respectively On the other hand, countries in the Middle East were ranked the most toxic with Saudi Arabia topping the list. It was followed by Kuwait, Bahrain, Qatar, UAE, Oman, Turkmenistan, Libya, Kazakhstan, Trinidad and Tobago respectively. The research concentrated on countries which emit greenhouse gases that could cause disastrous irreversible damage to the environment. According to WHO’s data released last year, air pollution levels had increased by 8 per cent between 2009 to 2016 across the world. The organisation estimates that 7 million lives across the world are claimed every year because poor air quality WHO says that urban air pollution continues to risk lives of thousands of people raising the need for public health and has led to emergence of diseases like, cancers and heart disease, many more asthma cases and respiratory diseases. The report rated Kenya’s air clean even as another study releases last year showed the country’s capital is the most polluted in the world. A 2015 research led by an urban researcher at Sweden’s Gothenburg University Ms Marie Thynell released last year, revealed that the amount of cancer-causing elements in the air within the Nairobi is 10 times higher than the threshold recommended by WHO. The research had also showed that emission of toxic gases and air pollution in the city is uncontrolled in the city mostly on the roads and in the slum areas. It had also revealed that the amount of diesel burned in Nairobi is 30 times compared with five years ago, posing a great risk to lives of thousands who live there.  