When did it occur to you that you could run? I was 13 years. I represented my primary school in athletics up to the zonals, and when I returned to school after the competition, my class teacher told me that I could have a great future in athletics. Later in secondary school, (I went to Samoei Secondary School) I went up to the World Junior Championships. It is after this that I decided to pursue a career in athletics. Ten years later in the 2008 Beijing Olympics, I won a gold medal in the 800 meters. Who was your role model when you were starting out in your career? I come from a family of runners. Henry Rono, who ran for Kenya in the 1980s is my uncle. Wilson Kipketer, who runs for Denmark is my first cousin. The two were my role models, and I aimed to build on what they had started. In a nutshell, what does it take to become a successful athlete? You must have the talent and the discipline, discipline to wake up early to be on the track and to follow the grueling training programmes. Besides, you must be ready to live the life of an athlete 365 days a year. What is an athlete’s day like? It varies depending on one’s training programme. I am not a morning person, so I would start my programme just before 10am. An athlete has to train seven days a week - everyday. The maximum break one can afford in a year is 20 days, so forget holidays. What is your advice to young people who want to launch a career in athletics? Listen to the advice of your coaches and mentors. Your motivation for greatness is what will see you stay in the career for a long time, but a desire for quick money will make it short-lived. Would you describe athletics as a talent-oriented career? If so, does education then count? While you do require talent, education is important too. If you are not knowledgeable, you risk missing out on opportunities that can earn you more money, for instance endorsements. Even connecting flights can be a challenge if you lack basic education. There is also the fact that being knowledgeable helps you to invest wisely. What do you consider your greatest achievement so far in your career? Being the Kenya team Captain for the Beijing Olympics in 2008. We were still smarting from the violence that rocked the country following the elections, and it felt good to be able to unite as athletes, irrespective of tribe. We had Samuel Wanjiru, and we managed to scoop the highest number of medals before Rio. Looking at Kenyan athletes at the forefront today, which two have the greatest potential? Vivian Cheruiyot and Eliud Kipchoge. Eliud has been very consistent. His athletics career spans over 20 years now. Vivian has got more medals than any other athlete in Kenya today. She is an all-rounded athlete having done cross-country, road races, tracks and now has her sight on the marathon. What are your views ondoping and the politics that riddle Athletics Kenya? Doping has the potential to destroy the good name that Kenyan athletes have built and protected for over 50 years. Kenya is known for its athletes, wildlife and its beautiful beaches. That is why this needs to be seriously addressed. To bring real change at Athletics Kenya, we need a new team with fresh ideas that will encourage our athletes to proudly run for their country. They should for instance not be subjected to double taxation and their retirement needs to be addressed through legislation. You retired from athletics nine years ago – what occupies your time now? I am an entrepreneur, I run the Tortoise Hotel in Kapsabet. I am also a motivation speaker in and out of Kenya, where I work with schools, universities and corporates. For the last nine months, I have been busy convincing the people of Emgwen Constituency in Nandi County that if they elect me as a Member of Parliament in the coming elections, I will work with them to realise increased productivity in the area. What do you do for leisure? I enjoy having a cup of tea and chatting with older men and women who are wiser than me. What is your biggest weakness? I am honest, too honest I think, yet I am going into politics... You read a lot… I am a lover of books; from fiction, to biographies and self-help books. I am currently reading The 48 Laws of Power by Robert Greene and How to Win Friends and Influence People, by Dale Carnegie. What is the most important lesson about money you have learnt? What matters is what money can do for you. Money can enhance your potential from nothing to productivity, however, it can make you miserable if you do not use it wisely. We all make mistakes – which one do you consider the worst? I tend to trust people too much. That is how I once ran into a conman in Nairobi and lost Sh600,000. What is the one thing about you that many do not know about? I am a good cook - my son keeps telling me that. I love cooking and occasionally cook for my family.  