The Orange Democratic Movement has demanded that the government steps up security for its leader Raila Odinga after armed youth disrupted his rally at Katilia Centre in Turkana East on Friday.Opiyo Wandayi, director of political affairs, said the incident was uncalled for adding that the State has a responsibility to enhance Mr Odinga s security."Raila Odinga is not just an ordinary presidential aspirant. He is the alternative president of this country and we will hold the State responsible for any harm that may be occasioned on his person anytime anywhere," Mr Wandayi said in Kisumu on Saturday.READ: Armed youths cut short Raila Odinga rallyMr Wandayi, also the Ugunja MP, said police must investigate the incident to forestall future occurrence.He also said the action was intended to detract ODM from its political course."That was an act of cowardice orchestrated by people who have no place in the modern Kenya..," he said.Also, Nasa co-principal Moses Wetang'ula and Kiminini legislator Chris Wamalwa want the government to increase security for politicians during the electioneering period. "We want to see Kenyans going to every part of Kenya and selling their policies freely. People have the right to resist ideas sold to them but do not have the right to interfere with whoever is delivering the message," he said in Kisumu on Saturday after visiting former minister Joseph Otiende at Avenue Hospital.Mr Odinga, after he was unable to address the rally, graced another one in Lokichar - Turkana South - with the region's Governor Josephat Nanok, which was peaceful. The ODM leader is in the county on a three-day tour to popularise the National Super Alliance (Nasa) and urge residents to register as voters in large numbers so that they can help the new coalition rise to power in the August elections.Regarding the incident, Governor Nanok said: "We have been told that one MP incited youths to come to our meeting and disrupt it. We did not even have a chance to address the rally as stones were thrown at us. "We also heard gunshots and we left to our next point, which was Lokichar." At Lokichar, Mr Odinga condemned the incident. email print email print Voters also believe defectors quit their parties in pursuit of personal benefit and greed. ODM leader says Jubilee has starved regions of cash and is unable to end the doctors strike.