Deputy President William Ruto has dismissed claims that he had neglected a daughter he sired with a woman who has sued him for child support, revealing that he has been paying Sh40,000 monthly for the girl's upkeep. The DP also revealed that he had gone further and secured the mother of his daughter a job that pays her Sh90,000 a month. Writing on his Twitter page, he said the woman had sired three other children and demanded their father(s) to take responsibility and take care of them. In a series of tweets from his verified Twitter account, @WilliamsRuto, the DP said he will not be blackmailed into caring for other men's children. "The other father/s should be men enough and look after their kids. Trying blackmail for me to cater for other men's children won't work," he tweeted. The tweet was one of three he sent out in response to a suit filed by a woman who said in court documents that the he had failed to take care of his daughter. WELL TAKEN CARE OF Mr Ruto on Thursday acknowledged siring the child out of wedlock with the woman, Prisca Chemutai Bett. He said his daughter is well taken care of and warned politicians and 'busybodies' not to meddle in the matter. "My 11 year old child Abby is well catered for including her education in private boarding school. Politicians & Busybodies should keep off," he wrote. The Deputy President later tweeted: "For the record I did find Abby's mother a 90k-a-month job, 40k monthly upkeep ever since. She went ahead to get her own 3 other kids though". Through lawyer Gitobu Imanyara, the woman accuses Mr Ruto of refusing to provide them with essential needs like food, decent clothing and a home. The woman also accuses Mr Ruto of refusing to pay school fees for their daughter and to provide medication. She also claims in the case documents that their child is now bound to miss out on healthy growth and quality education. “The minor is in dire need of and is entitled to basic necessities since her mother is not able to adequately provide for he...Mr Ruto has totally neglected his parental responsibility as demanded of him,” Mr Imanyara said. The woman wants the case, which was filed Thursday, certified as urgent and heard on a priority basis since she and her daughter will continue to suffer irreparably. She is seeking about Sh200,000 in monthly support for food, shelter, clothing, toiletries and house help alone, as well as adequate medical cover and school fees. Mr Ruto is married to Rachael Ruto and they have six children, including an adopted daughter.  