Resolution Impala Saracens, Homeboyz and Nondescripts have rang changes to their squads ahead of crucial Kenya Cup rugby league matches on Saturday.Impala have brought in Samuel Mutari at inside centre and Nato Simiyu at fullback as they brace for Nondies in a duel that will be played at the RFUEA grounds. Homeboyz, who are sponsored by Menengai Cream Soap, take on host Blak Blad at Kenyatta University grounds where the varsity students will be targeting their first win against the Deejays.The matches were postpone last year following the deaths of Nondies and Homeboyz players Ogeto Gecheo and Andrew Wekesa respectively.Victories for both Homeboyz and Impala should bring some change to the league standings.Homeboyz are fourth with 42 points and Impala fifth on 40. Mutari replaces injured Seji Owade while Nato comes in for Robin Kiplagat in what Impala director of coaching Fred Ollows saidwere tactical changes.Nondies have effected six changes to their side that is chasing their first victory against Impala in two years. Nondies Red Lion lost to the Sarries 22-37 in the first leg in November.Back row Simon Ngugi comes in for Ronnie Mwenesi, who moves to the bench as Kevin Gachoka goes to fly-half. Evans Musili replaces Jeremy Matata at scrum-half while Benjamin Marshalls comes in at inside centre for Dennis Ombachi, who moves to the wing. Eric Ombachi, Dennis s younger brother, goes to outside centre while Calvins Biko replaces James Odong at fullback. Beside the points on menu, the annual Samson Odhiambo Memorial trophy also known as Chums will be at stake between Impala and Nondies. At this stage, every win is important since this is the final bend where teams are jostling to reach the top six play-offs, said Ollows, who guided Impala to finish top of league in the regular season last year before losing in the final to Kabras Sugar 5-22. Competition is tougher this year since Homeboyz are in hot contention, Kabras started the season better than last year, Quins have been consistent while KCB are always solid, said Ollows. But we are focused on reaching the semi-finals and eventually lift the title. Nondies deputy coach Foxy Ojal said his charges have trained well this week and are focused on beating Impala.Coach Paul Murunga has made four changes to his Homeboyz side that handed leaders Kenya Commercial Bank their first defeat this season 33-24 in Ruaraka on Saturday.Centre Jeff Oluoch returns from injury to replace Oscar Ayodi while Nelson Sangura comes in for Leonard Mugaisi.FIXTURESImpala Saracens v Nondies (RFUEA ground, 4pm)Blak Blad v Homeboyz (Kenyatta University grounds, 4pm) email print email print Tribunal suspends his membership in the Julia Ojiambo party. Auditor-General Edward Ouko to appear before National Assembly s Finance Committee at 3pm.