Kenyan officials are optimistic that the country will pull off a successful hosting of next year’s Africa Nations Championship (Chan) despite the slow pace in its preparations. Sports Cabinet Secretary Hassan Wario last week gazetted the tournament’s local organising committee after the Confederation of African Football (Caf) expressed concerns over delays in setting up the committee and also delayed government financial guarantees. Eldoret’s Kipchoge Keino Stadium in Uasin Gishu County has been identified as one of the stadiums expected to host the championship for the continent’s home-based players. Members of the Chan Local Organising Committee, led by deputy chief executive officer and event director Herbert Tawa Mwachiro, visited the stadium yesterday and said they were optimistic the stadium will be ready for use in time. “We are optimistic that by the end of the year, the stadium’s renovation will be through and that it should be ready for use,” said Mwachiro. Mwachiro was on a pre-inspection visit to see the progress being made at the stadium ahead of a thorough inspection of all facilities in the country next week by Caf officials. “Next week, Caf will be sending a high level of technical team to come and see our level of preparedness in hosting such tournament which is just 11 months away. We have to work extra hard for us to ensure we meet the deadlines,” said Mwachiro. Mwachiro was part of the team that travelled to Gabon on a bench marking exercise during the Africa Cup of Nations where they held many meetings with Caf’s hierarchy appraising them on the progress of preparations. Mwachiro was accompanied by assistant director Thomas Ochieng said that since the contractor has been given the second phase of renovation, he will be first enough to finish the project on time. “I don’t think all things being equal will be a hindrance to such process since there is good will from the government, strong support from the same government and strong urge from all quarters in the Football Kenya Federation (FKF) to ensure success in this tournament,” added Mwachiro. Mwachiro was part of the team that travelled to Gabon on a benchmarking exercise during the Cup of Nations where they held many meetings with Caf’s hierarchy appraising them on the progress of preparations. “We don’t want to lose this event. In 1996, we had been awarded to host Africa Football Championships (AFCON) but it didn’t take place. This time round we are focused as the rest of Africa feels that it is important for Kenya finally joins the football fraternity by hosting a major tournament,” added Mwachiro. Kenya won the bid to host the 2018 Chan in 2014. The tournament is set for January 11 to February 2 where 16 teams are set to take part.   It will be the brewers’ first time to taste continental football since February 2013.