There is no gain without pain, Maurice Odumbe simply says. We are at Sikh Union Club, Nairobi. Odumbe, ever easy going, has been kind enough to take time off his training session to have this interview, that was in fact arranged on the same. Odumbe is Kenya’s new batting coach, a job he was appointed to on January 23. You would expect him to be a busy man, organising sessions on the net, engaging in team talks, having video reviews and basically getting his philosophy of the game internalised with the team. Any new coach would be doing that. But he still had time to meet a cricket writer and give him a few morsels on his life. Odumbe of course does not need any introduction. He was first capped in 1992 during the mini-World Cup in the Netherlands where Kenya reached the semi-finals. Odumbe said that he would have been in the squad that took part in the same event in 1986, but at 16 then he was found to be too young for the event, but that is another story. Odumbe was the captain of Kenya at the 1996 World Cup. It was here that he truly announced himself to the world as he led Kenya to one of the biggest upsets in cricket history when they beat the West Indies by 73 runs. Kenya batted first, scoring 166 all out in 49.3 overs before dismissing the West Indies 93 all out in 35.3 overs. Odumbe bowled extremely well, taking three wickets for 15 runs conceded in 10 overs that included three maidens, deservedly earning him man-of-the match award. Odumbe appeared in two other editions of the World Cup - England (1999) and South Africa/Kenya/Zimbabwe (2003). In his last appearance, Kenya became the only non-Test playing country to reach the semi-finals. So, he would qualify as one of the best cricket brains Kenya has ever produced. And you can tell it from the way he talks about the game and what needs to be done to get Kenya back to the top level of the game. Odumbe says that the boys - as he calls the players of the team - must learn how to stay long at the wicket as that was the only sure way for one to improve his mental toughness. So how did he get this job that has thrust him back into the public limelight? “I was called by the Cricket Kenya general manager, Josephat Murithi, and asked if I could join them as the national team’s batting coach. I accepted the offer and assured him that I would not let them down,” he says. Odumbe is now part of a three-man bench that also has head coach Thomas Odoyo and assistant Peter Ong’ondo. The trio will prepare Kenya for two crucial ICC World Cricket Championship matches at Kirtipur, Nepal from March 11 to 13. Kenya must win the fixtures to enhance their chances of finishing among the top four teams that will advance to the 2019 World Cup qualifiers proper. Odumbe is excited by the prospects of leading Kenya to another World Cup campaign. And he is not alone. Team captain Rakep Patel said: “I watched him play as a young boy and it is great to have him as a batting coach. He has given us useful tips on how to bat against spin bowlers, how to rotate our strikes. Odumbe’s advice on how to place fielders when spinners are bowling is just great." Kenya’s opening batsman, Alex Obanda said: "I have seen changes in my game since Odumbe joined us as batting coach. He has shown me how to approach the game, play reverse sweep and the right time to play the right shot." “The future looks bright for Odumbe, at least in as far as cricket is concerned. His past was bright also, in the beginning before things got dark and painful.”     His playing career was cut short in August 2004, at his prime, when an International Cricket Council-appointed judge found him guilty of associating with a known Indian bookmaker. The judge slapped Odumbe with a five-year ban from all cricket activities. That single action reduced the flamboyant and high-flying Odumbe to a pauper. Before his ban, Odumbe  had taken part in 61 One Day Internationals (ODIs), appeared in 59 innings, scored 1,409 runs, was not out five time with a career high score of 83 runs. He bowled in 52 innings, took 39 wickets for 1,807 runs conceded with a best performance of 4/38. After the ban, CK understandably left him in the cold and the gifted player went to waste, until the chairman of Nairobi Provincial Cricket Association Super League and T20 side Stray Lions Club, Chidambaran Subramanian, came to his rescue a few years ago. Commenting on how he joined Stray Lions, Odumbe said: “I owe a lot to Chidam and the club as a whole. They have really looked after me. They have turned my life around. If it were not for them, things would have been tricky.” The 47-year-old Odumbe played a key role as Lion’s player last year helping the team clinch the Nairobi Provincial Cricket Association Super League trophy. The club made him team captain this season at three years shy of clocking half a century and one of the oldest players in Kenya’s elite cricket. Recalling the ICC trials, Odumbe said the council investigator’s turned his Canadian wife, Katherine Maloney, against him by telling her that he had an extra-marital affair. His wife was one of the witnesses produced by the ICC to give evidence against her husband. “I have forgiven all those people who gave false evidence against me,” said Odumbe. “Life must go on and I cannot live with bitterness.” The two divorced. “I talk with my sons, Michael and Leo occasionally and I do so through their mother. My ex-wife is still unmarried and I am single, who knows, maybe we could re-marry one of these fine days,” he said with a smile on his face. Odumbe comes from a cricketing family that lived at the Park Road Government Quarters, which produced the famous ‘Park Road Boys’ that included Tikolo brothers Tom, David and Steve, Suji brothers Daniel, Martin and Tonny, Odumbe brothers Kenneth, Bernard, Freddy, Oriwo and Maurice. Then there was also Alfred “Boi” Njuguna and his younger brother, Peter Kibaki. Other cricketers were John Copak, Thomas Opondo and Phillip Onywela.   Odumbe said that the whole group learnt their game using maize cobs for balls, plucks of wood for bat and a dust bin for a wicket. He said that as they could not compete with their elder brothers, they formed their own group of youngsters. “You had to bowl someone for you to get a chance to bat, otherwise you would bowl the whole day,” said Odumbe. “We later moved to Sir Ali Muslim Club where we became ball boys and watched great players like Zulfikar Ali, Mehmood Quireshy, Frasat Ali and Zahoor Sheikh in action.” Odumbe said that they got they first proper cricket playing gear from Sir Ali players. He said that he first played a proper game for Swamibapa B where he remained as 12th man. “Those days to be the 12th man was something big." “My elder brother, Kenneth, took me to Nairobi’s Wanderers Club where he pleaded with Amu Mauladad to give me a chance to play for them. Kenneth convinced Amu that I was a good player." “I was accepted and played my first game for the Wanderers against Nairobi Gymkhana, which was a very strong side at the time with players such as Harilal Shah, Jawahir Shah, Ramesh Patel and Hitesh Mehta in the side. Gymkhana batted first and scored 250 plus runs and we were routed for 70. But I top scored for the Wanderers with an unbeaten 43.” Odumbe said that he left Wanderers and joined Globe Cricket team before he moved to Aga Khan Sports Club, where he joined his brother, Tito Odumbe. Two of his other brothers - Bernard Owino and Martin Oriwo - were turning up for Swamibapa. There was bitter rivalry between the two sides. “There was no brotherhood during the game. We only became brothers when eating ugali at home. The way Oriwo, who was a fast bowler, was ruthlessly bowling at me left my Asian club mates wondering if he was really my blood brother.” Odumbe remembers with nostalgia how he met one of the greatest batsmen in the world, former West Indies skipper, Viv Richards, in England. At that time Odumbe was playing for Neath Cricket Club in England. “I met Viv when his Glamorgan Club came to play at our ground and they made me their 12th man.” “I was amazed to talk to a person whom I had only watched in videos. He was my role model and I admired him very much.” With his vast international exposure, Odumbe has much to offer to the budding cricket players on and off the field, to be their role model.  