Some Jubilee Party MCAs from Trans Nzoia County were denied a chance to address the party’s forum in Kitale after the audience got rowdy, accusing them of being corrupt after they were recently charged with misuse of public funds. The MCAs, alongside the county assembly Speaker David Sifuna, were last week charged in the anti-corruption court in Eldoret with misuse of public funds after allegedly obtaining imprests to receive the body of a deceased MCA in Nairobi in 2014. Trouble began when the assembly’s Deputy Speaker David Kapoloman was given a chance to introduce his colleagues at the event which was attended by Water Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa, among other leaders. The Jubilee supporters shouted down Mr Kapoloman despite his spirited efforts to calm them down. An attempt by Mr Wamalwa to calm the crowd to allow the MCA to speak fell on deaf ears. CALM RETURNS Calm only returned after an agreement was reached that the MCAs should not be given a chance to speak as per the crowd’s demands. The meeting went on with a session by members of Parliament. Elsewhere, Speaker Sifuna wondered why the county assembly is being crucified for “humanely sending off” one of their own with funds they received from the executive under the orders of Governor Patrick Khaemba. “We are being targeted by some political forces that want us to spend most of the time in courts while our political competitors have hit the ground running,” said the Speaker, who is eyeing the Trans Nzoia senatorial seat. He said he personally requested Governor Khaemba to assist them after then Matumbei Ward MCA Ronald Matongolo died in Nairobi. Mr Sifuna explained that he made the request since the hospital where the MCA died lacked a mortuary but his body needed to be preserved. “I was moved when I saw his body lying on the floor since I had accompanied his family to Nairobi when he was admitted in critical condition. That is why I sought help from Governor Khaemba,” said Mr Sifuna.   Detectives hunt for Speaker, Clerk and 15 other MCAs said to have escaped to Uganda.