Leaders from the Rift Valley have petitioned the government jail for life criminals harassing residents of wreaking havoc in West Pokot, Elgeyo Marakwet, Baringo and Turkana counties. The leaders asked the Judiciary to detain the bandits instead of releasing them on bond one they are arraigned in court. Led by West Pokot Governor Simon Kachapin and Pokot South MP David Pkosing, the leaders condemned insecurity being experienced in the region. Speaking at Kapchemogen Village, the leaders called on law enforcement agencies to act on perpetrators of crime and ensure the offenders face life imprisonment. “We condemn the killings in Baringo. They (bandits) are killing innocent people and police should hunt down them” said Mr Kachapin. At the same time, Mr Pkossing defended Tiaty MP Asman Kamama saying he was not involved in the deaths of two politicians who were killed last week in Marigat Town. PEACEFUL MAN “The situation is terrible in Baringo and I know Mr Kamama is a peaceful man. “In fact, (as) the Pokot caucus in parliament, we call him our bishop. His name should not be dragged into the killings just to block the investigations,” Mr Pkossing said. He called on the security forces to be proactive and beef up security by making the killings are stoped. The legislator said that the recent killings of politicians in Baringo was pure assassination and called on the government to investigate the matter. “We are telling our people to remain calm and not divert the attention to block investigations and work of police. It is a sad propaganda and if someone wants to take on Kamama he should use the right way. CONDOLED FAMILIES I am calling on the Pokot people not put politics in this issue. If you want votes tell people what you are able to do or not able to do. We condole with families of the slain politicians Mr Pepee Kitambaa and and Loyamorok MCA Kibet Cheretei,” said Mr Pkossing. Former Kapenguria MP Julius Murgor called on residents of the Rift Valley to embrace peace and calm among neighbouring communities. “We need peace. We have lost many people because of the conflicts. The Pokots and Turkanas have been involved in these vice but have not benefited from it. You cannot acquire wealth through killing someone,” he said. Mr Murgor called on area leaders talk to residents so that they do not revenge against their neighbours. “We urge residents in Tot and Lelan to shun revenge because it creates animosity among communities,” he said.   Red Cross pulls out after confrontation with residents that led to looting of relief food.