Q. I am not happy with my current job as I am the only millennial in my department. Even worse, my role and position is not clear, coupled with low pay. I’ve considered applying for other jobs but finally decided to further my education through a bachelor’s degree. Should I quit my job and focus on school or should I consider part-time classes and ease my parents with pocket money since they will be paying my school fees?  It is disconcerting to work without a clear mandate. Ordinarily, organisations issue job descriptions to employees to demarcate the reaches of their responsibilities. Without the employer clarifying expectations, it would be difficult to assess an employee’s contribution or quantify their reward. To have the clarity you seek, ask for a job description from your supervisor and seek to understand what is expected of you. It is unclear whether the perception about your pay is informed by comparing yours with that of your fellow millennials or by pitting it against the contribution you are making to your organisation. Although peer parity is an important consideration, the level of pay should ideally mimic the level of contribution made by an employee. Output is seldom uniform across individuals and therefore so should reward. Once you meet your employer’s expectations, it is easier to have a conversation with your supervisor to make a request relating to the level of your pay. It is positive that you intend to pursue further studies. While further education is an entry requirement for certain roles, it is what you do with it rather than merely having it that makes a difference at work. Obtaining a degree is not a direct contribution to the business without you being its medium of utility through hard work. It is best to make a choice of a degree course based on your career aspirations. Identifying a mentor at this stage of your career may be useful for guidance. Studying and working at the same time will enable you to simultaneously benefit from both work and school. Besides easing your parents’ burden for underwriting your education costs, paying for your expenses is a means through which you learn to fend for yourself, an aspect of life that will eventually be inescapable.  