The newly launched website for the World Under-18 Championships will serve as the nerve centre of the global track and field championship, the event s patron, First Lady Margaret Kenyatta, has said.Speaking in Nairobi on Tuesday after launching the website, the First Lady said it would provide information to participants, stakeholders and also serve thousands of visitors who are planning to visit Kenya for the championships, most of them for the first time. The website will be the primary point of contact for many participants and attendees of the event, their first connection to Kenya, said the First Lady during the launch at Kasarani. Also present during the launch were Sports Cabinet Secretary Hassan Wario, Sports Principal Secretary Richard Ekai, Local Organising Committee chairman lieutenant general (rtd) Jackson Tuwei and World Under-18 CEO Mwangi Muthee. As I thank the developers and designers who created this website for their fantastic work, I urge those in charge of maintaining the platform to ensure it reflects the very best of our country, added Mrs Kenyatta.More than 2,000 athletes from 150 countries are expected in Nairobi for the championships slated for July 12-16 at the Moi International Sports Centre, Kasarani. The upcoming championships offer a fantastic opportunity for us to celebrate, applaud and recognise the diverse talents and abilities of youth across the world, said the First Lady, adding that every competing athlete will serve as an inspiration to young people globally, a testament to the reality that age does not necessarily define ability.Mrs Kenyatta promised to ensure the event s success, adding that the briefings she has received from the Local Organising Committee on ongoing work at Kasarani and Athletes Village at Kenyatta University confirm that joint efforts were bearing fruit. I am confident that actualisation of the logistical and operational plans is well on course to complete the work on schedule and ready to host a successful Championship. Wario said the championships where Sh5 billion will be spend will leave a lasting legacy with a refurbished Moi International Sports Centre and a warm up track at Kasarani and the athletes village at Kenyatta University among others. Muthee said works at Kasarani and Kenyatta University should be through by April 30 for test runs.Athletics Kenya chief Tuwei noted that there will be no reason for Kenya not to win the overall team title on home soil, having won it in Bydgoszcz, Poland (1999) and Brixen, Italy (2009). email print email print Kenya's Cross Country and relay team have began official training at Kigari high attitude grounds in Embu County in readiness for the World competition set for Kampala, Uganda, on March 26. Refugee population has shrunk by 10,000 since December 2016, says global body. Investigators uncover sadistic treatment of students, forcing principal to retire early.