Nairobi County Secondary Schools girls basketball champions Parklands Arya will be banking on home advantage when they take on St George s Girls in the final of the Westlands Sub-County Term One games ON Saturday.The boys final will see Strathmore School battle Hospital Hill for the crown.With the finalists already assured of their places in the sub-region games, teams will go full throttle as they bid to be crowned champions. Favourites Arya are out to claim a hat-trick of titles after another impressive campaign.Having topped the preliminary stage after winning all their 11 matches, the team trounced Kenya High 101-31 in last weekend s semi-final at Upper Hill. The Godfrey Mwaloma-led team have never lost to St George s and humiliated their opponents 103-25 in last year s final.Mwaloma is looking for a repeat performance but believes their opponents have improved since their last meeting. Our first target was to secure a slot in the next stage and we achieved this comfortably. Tomorrow s (Saturday s) match will not be a walk in the park because our opponents are coming for revenge and we have got to be wary, the coach told Saturday Nation Sport.Forward Mitchelle Aawuor, who sunk 22 points in the semi-final, will be tasked to lead the attack alongside Mercy Mumo (16), skipper Emmaculate Nerima (16) and centre Dorcilla Akode (16). If we can maintain the form we had against Kenya High then we can successfully defend out crown, he added.St George s will need to come up with a great defensive game plan if they are to thwart Arya s lethal quartet from running riot. St George s coach Lilian Jonah is however tipping her charges to upset the champions. We will not look at past results because they count for nothing. We are in the final and we believe we can win, she said. Vanesa Auma, who starred in her team s 50-46 win over State House Girls in the semis, will lead her team s attack.In the boys final, Strathmore will be looking to reclaim the title they lost to St Austin s last year while Hospital Hill, who are in their first ever final, will be eyeing a maiden title. Strathmore beat Nairobi School 78-48, while Hospital Hill were 37-24 winners against Makini School in the last four.In hockey, Parklands Arya will be looking to reach the final as they take on Kenya High in the semis as Kianda School battle State House Girls in the other last four encounter. email print email print Nominations in Nyanza and western major hurdle for Opposition coalition. Tensions have been rising over migrants from Nigeria, Zimbabwe and Somalia.