Leaders in Nakuru County have condemned the brutal killing of two Baringo politicians and called for speedy investigations into the murders. The slain politicians, Loyamorok MCA Frederick Cheretei and Tiaty parliamentary aspirant Simon Kitambaa were shot dead on Sunday morning inside the T-Junction bar and restaurant in Marigat Town. Nakuru Town West MP Samuel Arama and the Rift Valley Council of Elders Chairman Gilbert Kabage termed the killing as unfortunate especially at a time when the country is preparing for general elections. Mr Arama said police must intensify the investigations into the killing. “Police should follow all the crucial leads to the incident ranging from politics or business rivalry and ensure that the truth is finally unearthed. “As of now we cannot rule out the possibility that politicians’ killing may have had a political dimension and that’s why we want the police to ensure that the truth is brought to light,” said the MP. Mr Kabage said those behind the killings should be brought to justice. “I urge the security organs to conduct through investigations and bring to book those behind the cold blood murder of the youthful politicians, “said Mr Kabage. His sentiments were also echoed by activist Jesse Karanja who asked the government to guarantee security for all political aspirants. “The government should ensure political aspirants are guarded to avoid similar incidents as campaigns intensify. Otherwise many selfish politicians will eliminate their rivals to have it smooth in the primaries and in the final polls," noted Mr Karanja. Mr Kitambaa, who was appointed chairman of the National Council for Population and Development by President Uhuru Kenyatta last year was to battle it out with current area MP Asman Kamama in the Jubilee primaries. The two were killed by the assassins who appeared to have been in a mission to eliminate them. According to eye witnesses, the killers who were hooded and armed with AK 47 rifles shot in one direction, targeting the victims despite being in a group of other revelers during the 12.30 am incident. The assailants then proceeded to destroy vehicles belonging to the politicians. The MCA’s vehicle was set ablaze whereas that of the parliamentary aspirant was vandalized. Rift Valley regional coordinator Mr Wanyama Musiambo who addressed the press in Marigat town has called on residents to volunteer information on the killing to help the police unravel the mysterious murder.   Fredrick Kibet Cheretei and Symon Pepee Kitambaa shot inside bar in Marigat, Baringo.