Nasa partners Raila Odinga and Musalia Mudavadi have criticised the Jubilee government for allowing doctor's union officials to be jailed by failing to tackle their two-months strike. They said Kenyans should send the Jubilee government home because it has failed to fulfill its development promise, including creating more jobs for the youth. Speaking at Gusii stadium on Monday, Mr Odinga said instead of President Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto addressing the doctors' and lecturers' strikes and the hunger crisis, they have been busy chasing votes. "What the doctors were demanding ... is just a drop in the ocean. Patients are dying in hospitals and at homes, but they do not care," said Mr Odinga. ONGERI RECEIVED He spoke when he formally received former Nyaribari MP and UN Habitat envoy Sam Ongeri, who has defected from Jubilee to ODM. Mr Odinga claimed Jubilee had failed to lead the country and were presiding over theft of public funds in mega corruption scandals. "Kenyans will have to wait for longer for any meaningful development. For doctors, teachers and lectures to get their rights, Kenyans must ensure a Nasa (National Super Alliance) government," said the ODM party leader. Mr Mudavadi said they were united than before as Nasa and were ready to send the Jubilee leadership home. VOTER LISTING The two urged Gusii residents to use the remaining one day to register as voters in large numbers, saying a voter's card is the only weapon left for Kenyans to remove bad leaders from power. They were hosted by Kisii Governor James Ongwae and joined by Governors John Nyagarama of Nyamira and Okoth Obado of Migori, Homa Bay Woman Rep Gladys Wanga and her Nyamira counterpart Alice Chae. Others were ODM treasurer Timothy Bosire, nominated Senator Janet Ong'era and MP Kitutu Chache South Richard Onyonka, among others. The defection of Prof Ongeri has been described as a blow to President Kenyatta, who has a sizeable following in Gusiiland. UHURU CONFIDANT Prof Ongeri has been one of the president's closest confidants and he decided to leave Jubilee over the handling of The National Alliance's (TNA) campaigns in the region in the 2013 General Election. TNA was Mr Kenyatta's vehicle in 2013. He paid both for life membership and application fees to the ODM party on Tuesday last week, according to sources at Orange House, Nairobi. The former MP is eyeing the Kisii senatorial seat on the party's ticket. Kisii County Speaker Kerosi Ondieki said Prof Ongeri’s joining of Nasa would help the opposition penetrate the larger Nyaribari that had been allied to the government for a long time. Mr Odinga had been critical of some political leaders from Kisii County, among them Senator Chris Obure, who recently defected to the Jubilee party. RAILA IRKED He was especially irked by visits by the leaders to State House to meet President Kenyatta. He said the Gusii community is not up for sale and any attempts by Jubilee to sway voters to their side will fail. Mr Odinga accused the government of making false promises to the region since it came to power. "This government is like a crafty person luring a chicken to the slaughter by making lots of sweet promises. After it achieves its objective, those promises will never see the light of day," he said in one his recent tours to the county. In recent months, the party has suffered several defections after Senator Obure, Deputy Governor Joash Maangi and scores of ward representatives allied to Cord called it quits.  