Former world record-holder and 2012 Olympics bronze medallist Wilson Kipsang, will be going for a world record when he lines up to race in the Tokyo Marathon on February 26.According to the former New York Marathon champion, Tokyo is a fast course given that many athletes have recorded good times there. The Tokyo Marathon course is fast and when you see the performances of the athletes who have been running in Tokyo sub 2.06 are attained with ease. So I think this is one of the best courses for somebody like me," said Kipsang. I have always been trying to break the record and regain the title of the fastest marathon runner in the world." In every race that I participate in I always give my best and doing my best is attempting to break the world record. Kipsang said that breaking the world record was possible if weather conditions were good and the pacesetters strong. If my body responds well, then I will attempt to break the world record. You saw in London, nobody could believe someone could run 2.03.03 but the record was almost broken so even I believe with my training and strong focus breaking the record in Tokyo is possible, he said.Others who will be lining up with Kipsang in Tokyo include last year s runner s up at the race Bernard Kipyego, former Tokyo Marathon champion Dickson Chumba, Bernard Koech and Evans Chebet. Kipsang, who was speaking during an annual meeting of athletes under Volare Management in Eldoret said that he has planned for three major races this year. The first will be Tokyo Marathon, second one will be winning a Parliamentary seat, starting with nominations and I think I will have a road race to wind up the year. Kipsang has announced that he will be vying for the Keiyo South parliamentary seat in Elgeyo Marakwet County during August s General Election.He said politics will not interfere with his athletic career since he has been able to balance business, family and other activities. I don t find this so strange. I have always been a very busy man, he said. email print email print According to the commission s election guidelines, campaigns should only start after June 28. Kibet Cheretei and Pepee Kitambaa were killed in midnight attack.