American television network Fox has apologised to Kenyans after it aired authentic footage of the Westgate Mall terror attack in Monday’s episode of their hit series "24 Legacy". According to Quartz Media (QZ), the network’s spokesman Chris Alexander said the producers “very much regret using it to depict a fictional act of terror on the show”. The producers, in an email, also stated that the footage would be removed. “In episode 4 of 24: Legacy we regretfully included news footage of an attack in Nairobi. It will be removed from all future broadcasts and versions of the show. We apologise for any pain caused to the victims and their families and are deeply sorry,” reported QZ, quoting a statement from executive producers Evan Katz and Manny Coto. KENYANS OUTRAGED QZ, however, did not say if the apology was issued publicly or just through the media house. Kenyans were outraged after the network showed footage of the Westgate Mall terror attack. They took to social media using the hashtag #SomeoneTellFox to condemn the network for using the footage. In the episode, the agent says the attack was in Alexandria, Egypt, where more than 200 people died, “including 18 Americans.” During the actual Westgate Mall terror attack on September 21, 2013, at least 67 people died, with more than 175 reportedly wounded. 'REPULSIVE PIECE OF ART' The Kenya Film Classification Board (KFCB) also weighed in on the matter, describing the episode as a “repulsive, insensitive and reckless piece of art that heartlessly evokes the painful memories of the tragic terror attack”. “It flies in the face of basic considerations of human dignity, in total disregard of the feelings of the victims and their families,” said KFCB chief executive Ezekiel Mutua in a statement. “Further, the [show] goes against the Code of Ethics for the Practice of Journalism in Kenya. It is not only an inaccurate and false narrative of the Westgate terror attack, but also a callous piece of entertainment that demeans Africans and Kenyans in particular.” Mr Mutua said the board will take necessary action in line with local and international law.   We also remember the bravery of those who risked everything to stop the terror.