Hi Kitoto,I am a 24 and in love with a woman who is 27. We agree on many issues but my worry is our age difference, although she has no problem with that. She respects me even though she s older and often tells me the a person s morals are determined by their character, not age. Is age difference an issue? Hi,The age factor has been a big issue for many people who want to get married. However, the solution does not necessarily lie in what other people tell you to do. First, their advice could just cost you a great wife. Beauty and admiration of a person s qualities are in the eyes of the beholder. The fact is, you are the only one who understands the qualities you are looking for in a woman.Second, people s advice could push you into a marriage that should have never been because somehow, you might have missed the chance to confront the issue by yourself. You must realise that this woman is your girlfriend, so you are the one who will live with her for the rest of her life. As a result, it is your responsibility to deal with your own fears.I suggest that you ask yourself pertinent questions like: Why do I feel this woman is right for me? Are the qualities that I am attracted to going to fade? Great relationships must be built on enduring qualities like faithfulness, love, respect, fellowship etc. Don t just base your attraction on what will fade with time like money, body size, etc.If you truly love her for who she is and for the enduring qualities you have seen in her, then go for it. Three years are too insignificant where there is love based on such values. If she is the type of woman you can grow old together with, then marry her. However, fear is our greatest enemy, even where one has some good things happening.Deal with what is causing your fears. Her faith in you is not enough to deal with your fears. A time is coming when all she will need to hear from you is, Am I still attractive to you? Since she is older, she is the one who still need assurance while you are the one who needs to convince yourself. email print email print Mob uses rocks to barricade entrance to Meru town stage where Nasa was to hold a rally. Ruto says Kerio Valley to be under one police command.