The National Super Alliance on Monday went vote-hunting in Jubilee’s Mt Kenya stronghold, where they accused the government of tribalism and corruption and promised to fix the problems facing the people. Mr Raila Odinga and Mr Kalonzo Musyoka campaigned in Meru and Tharaka Nithi counties where they told locals that President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy, Mr William Ruto, were practising tribal politics but that will not help them in the August election. The two were earlier blocked from the Meru bus terminus by youth chanting Jubilee slogans who barricaded the entrance with rocks. But they were able to speak at an alternative venue in Meru town as well as Laare and Kiutine markets in Igembe North and Central sub-counties. Speaking at Laare market, Mr Odinga said it was time Kenyans and their politicians focused on politics that brought unity and fostered development. The former Prime Minister said some counties labelled as Jubilee strongholds have shifted their support to Nasa. “Kenyans have the reason, ability and will to remove Jubilee from power. Corruption and tribalism in the country are on an immeasurable level and we must change for the betterment of our people,” Mr Odinga said, criticising the President and his deputy for allegedly ruling the country on an ethnic basis. Mr Musyoka said a wave of change is blowing across Africa and Kenya will not be left behind. MISTAKE TO MERGE PARTIES “Before election you’ll hear talk about Mt Kenya which diminishes after the polls. That has a political meaning and voters should be wary,” Mr Musyoka said in Meru town. He said Jubilee supporters, including Meru Senator Kiraitu Murungi, have now realised that it was a mistake to merge parties to form Jubilee and asked those unhappy to jump ship and join Nasa. They went out of their way to woo Meru governor Peter Munya who is the Party of National Unity leader to join the outfit. Governor Munya, said Mr Odinga and Mr Musyoka, was supportive of devolution, just like Nasa is. “As a government, we will allocate 45 per cent of national resources to counties instead of the meagre 15 per cent given by Jubilee,” said Mr Odinga. “Mr Munya stands for what is truthful and just. We welcome him to Nasa,” he said. On the miraa issue, they questioned a government initiative allocating Sh1 billion to cushion farmers from the effects of an international ban. They said a task force formed to look into the issue is yet to make public its report after the deadline elapsed. They accused the government of failing to find a diplomatic solution to the problem. READ: Crisis in Baringo as Red Cross pulls out over insecurity Mr Odinga promised that within 90 days in office, he would ensure miraa farmers get better prices for their produce. He accused the government of failing to tackle runaway corruption and insecurity, which has plagued parts of Baringo, Meru and Isiolo counties, saying it is the government’s responsibility to protect its citizens. “If the Deputy President can be ambushed by bandits, how safe are Kenyans?” he asked. This is the second visit by Mr Odinga to Meru in less than a month. Speaking at Wilson Airport before they flew to Meru, Mr Odinga and Mr Musyoka promised to stick together after Nasa’s flagbearer is named. RESPECT VERDICT The former Prime Minister said Nasa leaders would respect the verdict of a special technical committee mandated to spearhead the process of picking a presidential candidate. “We will respect the outcome of the committee’s process. In the meantime, we urge our followers not to be anxious, as the greatest task is not who will be our flagbearer, but how we will redeem Kenyans from the jaws of Jubilee’s misrule,” he said. Mr Odinga said rumours being spread of a possible Nasa break-up over the flagbearer are “baseless propaganda”. “This has been a long journey. At this juncture, no amount of political witch-hunt is going to break Nasa. Kenyans are already tired of runaway corruption, ethnic exclusion in government appointments and collapse of the health sector,” he said. He added that nothing was impossible, given that in 2002, he endorsed retired president Mwai Kibaki for presidency despite him being a Kikuyu. “Most people believed that I could not say ‘Kibaki Tosha’ because (he) Kibaki was a Kikuyu, while I am a Luo. However, the naysayers were proved wrong because more than 90 per cent of the Luo voted for Kibaki,” he said. Mr Musyoka said that since each of the member parties has three representatives in the committee, there should be no fear about who will eventually be named the flagbearer. The committee is made up of 12 members, three from each of the four affiliate parties. Apart from Wiper and ODM, other parties represented are Ford Kenya led by Senator Moses Wetang’ula (Bungoma) and Musalia Mudavadi’s Amani National Congress.  