The Akasha brothers gave a middleman Sh4 million to bribe a Judiciary official to drag out their extradition case, according to documents seen by the Nation. The brothers were, however, furious because they suspected the middleman did not deliver the bribe, and as a result, they were getting a rough time from law enforcement. They contemplated taking matters into their own hands, with a proposal being made that they film the Judiciary official taking the bribe and use that for blackmail. The contents of the document show Baktash Akasha discussing with another person the possible change of tactics in their attempts to defeat justice. “We have discussed, we must take control wenyewe. Mtu jinga sana hii. Hatutaki hii control yake. Tunataka control yetu sisi wenyewe. Pesa isiende bure (This guy is very foolish. We don’t want this control he has of the matter. We should control it ourselves so that our money doesn’t go to waste),” Baktash is quoted as saying. According to the document, the new approach to the Judiciary official would involve having the handover of the cash filmed. At one point, the brothers are reported to nostalgically recall how their father, slain drug baron Ibrahim Akasha, used to deal with such officials, and a suggestion is made that they could very easily resort to his methods. “Tutamaliza hii kitu vile mzee alikuwa anafanya (We’ll deal with this thing the way our father used to do),” Baktash is reported to have said. “Unajua mzee alikuwa anafuatana na kitu moja kwa moja mpaka ajionee yeye mwenyewe na macho. Unaona? Huyo hasikii, hasikii [expletive] hasikii. (Our father would follow a matter and make sure he confirms it himself. This one doesn’t get it. He doesn’t),” he is also reported to have said. In the document, Baktash is quoted as being doubtful of the middleman, whom the brothers generally distrust and describe as a con man used to easy money. KILOS OF HEROINThis was because while the middleman had indicated that the money would be used to pay off officials higher up in the chain, the brothers continued to be treated badly by law enforcement agents. At one point, Baktash’s counterpart, who was not identified, is quoted as saying: “Ametwambia leo, ‘Nimepeana mita nne. Mita nne nimepeana, kila kitu iko tayari.’ Hata yule jamaa…akasema nne hapa. Mpaka akasema atatengeneza ile ingine ya kwenda huko juu. Watu wao yaani. (He told us today, ‘I have handed over Sh4 million. Everything is ready. That guy said here that we give him Sh4 million. He even said he would organise everything with the higher-ups. Their people.)” But apparently unhappy with the middleman, Baktash said, “Wacha akulie tu hiyo. Pesa ya bure. Yeye hasikii. Hasikii. (Let him take that money. Easy money. He doesn’t listen).” Angry at the middleman and the law enforcement agent, Baktash is quoted as repeatedly referring to them as “shameless”. The document suggests that the brothers were, however, afraid that things will not work out and repeatedly told their counterparts to be careful. When they proved to undercover agents that they could get large amounts of heroin into the country, and indeed, up to Nairobi, they boasted of the quality of the product and asked them to speed up their order. Speed was essential, they said, because their product was so good it was possible the agents would miss out if they took long to make their order. They eventually handed over 100 kilos of heroin and two kilos of methamphetamine, which will possibly form part of the evidence against them.   America’s FBI had sought the Akashas for a long time.