Regular readers of this column were certainly not surprised by the news this week that Facebook and WhatsApp are responsible for most of the fake news in circulation in Kenya. This week, we feature one piece propagated on WhatsApp and another on Facebook. 1. That Tullow Oil is looking to employ 390 people The message spread using WhatsApp has been making the rounds for the past few weeks and I understand that quite a number of people have fallen for the trick. It starts off like a typical corporate statement. “We provide the opportunities to build a solid future within our rapidly expanding portfolio and provide competitive rewards as part of our people strategy,” it says. REGISTRATION The jobs are then listed: drivers, plant operators, messengers, secretaries, security guards, cleaners, groundsmen and storekeepers. There is more information on the website getjobskenya.info. Although the website declares in capital letters that the jobseeker is not charged a registration fee and that interviews are free, one is required to book an interview. Booking an interview is Sh300. WEBSITEThe correct position, according to Tim Tororey, the communications manager at Tullow Kenya, is that there is nothing of that sort. “We’re not hiring. We have our own website and this is where we post our jobs.” he said. 2. That Biwott’s hearse was bulletproof This came out last week after the former powerful minister died. A gold-coloured casket was pictured along with a Jaguar hearse. On Facebook, many gleefully announced, “Brand new Jaguar hearse at JKIA, imported to transport body of Total Man.” BLOGOur colleagues at Nairobi News found out that this was once more fake news, spread around in the perpetual search for likes and retweets. Eddy Kagera reported that a reverse search of the image on Google showed that it was from a Nigerian blog and had been posted in 2015. It was the casket of Nigerian businesswoman and politician Mama Hannah Idowu Dideolu. FUNERAL She was the wife of Nigeria’s independence hero Obafemi Jeremiah Oyeniyi Awolowo. The ceremonies associated with her funeral lasted 11 days. Without much of the Total Man’s life known, a lot of the coverage of his life repeated the mystery and guardedness that was Mr Biwott’s hallmark. That the Jaguar hearse had been imported for the man was debunked on the day of his funeral as the familiar black Mercedes from Lee Funeral Home was the one pictured stuck in the mud on its way to the service.  