President Uhuru Kenyatta and his Deputy William Ruto on Thursday criticised the National Super Alliance (Nasa) for taking a new case to court challenging the deployment of the military to regions identified as hotspots during the elections. The two, who campaigned in Laikipia, West Pokot and Busia said providing security at all times is the government’s core mandate, adding that they would do anything to ensure all Kenyans were safe even after the elections. READ: Police give chilling warning on chaos CAMPAIGNSSpeaking at Chelang’a Gardens in Kapenguria, President Kenyatta accused the opposition of filing a string of cases in court instead of campaigning. They said Nasa principals had spent most of their time in court instead of selling their manifesto to Kenyans. “Why is the opposition hitting out at the army, police and Matiang’i? They are also interfering with commissions like Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC),” he said, adding that every Kenyan had a right to protection by security officers. COURT CASES“Even they are being protected by security officers. If today I remove security officers assigned to them they will cry foul. "Everyone deserves security,” the President said and challenged the opposition to seek votes from wananchi instead of focusing their energies in courts. On Thursday, the opposition coalition, led by Raila Odinga, went to court seeking orders to stop the deployment of the military during the electioneering period. READ: Poll violence possible, says EU mission - VIDEO INTIMIDATIONBut Mr Ruto asked the opposition to stop complaining about the work of independent institutions, saying their mandates were clearly stipulated in the Constitution. “The opposition should let the independent bodies perform their duties. IEBC and security officers do not determine who Kenyans will vote for. "It is upon Kenyans to make their decisions,” he said, adding that the opposition was bent on intimidating the security apparatus in the country. PEACE “The main work of the security officers is to ensure that the polling centres are safe so that all voters can vote for whoever they want. "They cannot interfere with the work of police officers who are protecting Kenyans. We are behind our security officers because we need peaceful elections,” he said. Mr Ruto said Jubilee would ensure West Pokot County was transformed as he drummed up support for Governor Simon Kachapin of Jubilee, saying he was among the Kenyans who fought for the devolution dream. MANDATEIn Laikipia, President Kenyatta told Mr Odinga to accept defeat and desist from making irresponsible claims against the armed forces. “We have seen him claiming that the army will be used to intimidate the public yet he wants to be the commander in chief. It is the role of the army to ensure there is peace,” he said at Ngenia Secondary school. He urged residents to support Jubilee’s Sarah Korere, saying the ODM candidate and area MP Mathew Lempurkel “must be sent home”. JOBPresident Kenyatta pleaded with youthful independent candidate Maina Munene to step down for Ms Korere, promising to offer him a ‘big job’ and create a new constituency for his 2022 bid. “This young man is one of us. I want to assure him that in the next five years, he will have a new constituency. "We will push to ensure he gets the new constituency where he will vie in the next election. "I will give him a plum job and mentor him in politics as he waits for the new constituency.” IEBC However, Mr Munene turned down the offer. In Laikipia East, the President urged residents to vote in Jubilee candidates led by Governor Joshua Irungu and reject Independent candidate Nderitu Muriithi. PLEDGES In Busia, he accused the opposition of fighting for their selfish interests, frustrating the IEBC and dragging security agencies through the mud. The President, who spoke at Adungosi shopping centre, said the leaders in the opposition were making false promises and pledged to equip hospitals with equipment worth Sh800 million. Reports by Aggrey Mutambo, Oscar Kakai, David Muchui and Gaitano Pessa   The alliance also argues that military deployment might end up intimidating voters.