Team Kenya for the World Under-18 Championships starting on Wednesday at Moi International Sports Centre,  was among three teams that received the national flag from President Uhuru Kenyatta Saturday morning at State House, Nairobi. Also receiving the flag from the President was the Kenyan Paralympic team for the World Athletics Championships due July 13 to 23 in London and the Deaf Team Kenya to the Summer Deaflympic Games to be held from July 18 to 30 in  Turkey. President Kenyatta urged the athletes to make Kenya proud saying the country would support and pray for them. He told the World Under-18 Championships athletes that the government was counting on them to give the country a positive image as the hosts. “We count on you to show your country in the best light possible. Be accommodative and helpful to your fellow athletes from around the world. This is an opportunity for us to showcase our country and we are counting on you,” said the President. At the same time, one of the strongest athletics nations in Africa, Algeria, and Argentina jetted in Nairobi on Friday ahead of the championships. Algeria has brought in a team of 21 that include African junior heptathlon champion, Aratbia Asmaa Baya, 17. Looking all set for the championships, Baya, whose long jump mark of 6.02 metres is among the best, exuded confidence, a warning to any potential rival. Algeria team leader, Ahmim Said, said they had entered athletes in 1,500m, 3,000m, 2000m SC, heptathlon, 100m, 200m, 400m and 10km walk. “We have confidence that our athletes will perform well in these championships, although we know we are competing are very strong home team,” he said. They were also accompanied by women’s coach, Zitouni Youiua, who coaches Baya. Argentina, better known for its Barcelona football star striker Lionel Messi, arrived shortly after the Qatar Airways plane carrying Algerian team touched down at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport shortly after 3pm. Early in the morning, Namibia, the home of former Olympic Games 200m silver medallist and one of the continent’s most decorated athlete, Frankie Fredericks, jetted in while another Latin American nation, Chile, and Caribbean nations Bahamas and Cuba, were due to arrive on Friday night. Poland were the first to arrive on Tuesday even though one athlete from Oman arrived in the country three weeks ago.   Rudisha’s Irish coach Colm O’Connel advised Kibiwott to move up to 800m this year.