The enhanced security operations in Lamu to flush out al-Shabaab terrorists are critical. For far too long, the region has remained volatile, with frequent attacks. The expansive Boni Forest that extends to the Somali border, has been a notorious sanctuary for the extremists, who use it as a launching pad for incursions into Lamu and neighbouring counties such as Garissa and Tana River. Many deaths have been reported in recent times resulting from such attacks. Last week, at least three police officers were killed and several others injured in a raid on a police station. But the security forces have acted diligently to repulse and demolish the terrorists. The latest figures indicate more than 80 al-Shabaab fanatics have been killed and four camps destroyed in the past one month. But the war is far from over. More concerted and targeted operations are paramount to smother the insurgents, who have continued to visit mayhem within and outside our borders. However, we know that the security operations have not been without adverse consequences. Already, residents are being displaced, necessitating relief interventions. Dozens have been evacuated to safe grounds to insulate them from bombings that started at the weekend to flush out the terrorists. Displacement creates human misery. Individuals who ordinarily fend for themselves are incapacitated and compelled to seek assistance. Past security operations such as in Mt Elgon some years ago had devastating impacts on civilians. This is why we are calling for well-directed and quick operations to flush out and liquidate the rebels but do all that is possible to keep the civilians safe. It is not lost on observers that “Operation Linda Boni” is taking far much longer than had been anticipated. It has been running for nearly three years and the end is not in sight yet. It had been said that the rebels had been vanquished, but they have made a resurgence in recent days. Be that as it may, the imperative is to change the strategy and go full out to wipe them out. Further, the operation must not create a humanitarian crisis or violate the rights of innocent local residents.  