Deputy President William Ruto on Wednesday returned to the coast where he urged residents to re-elect the Jubilee Party, saying it has a special plan to develop the region. Mr Ruto said the aim is to improve tourism, which has been ignored by previous administrations for the past 50 years. CAMPAIGN RALLY Speaking at a Jubilee Party campaign rally in Kwa Ndomo in Magarini, he said the government had made great strides in the region by tarmacking more than 200km of road. “All these developments are aimed at improving the living standards in the area and make the coast region the hub of tourism,” the DP said. He said: “That is why we want to journey with you through Kilifi North MP Gideon Mung’aro in developing the region”. Mr Ruto defended the Jubilee Party's development record, saying the government is tarmacking Malindi-Sala Gate, Sabaki-Marafa and Mariakani-Bamba roads among other projects, adding that they are aimed at improving the economy of the region. “We want a child born at the coast to benefit from resources like other regions and that is why we have constructed Galana Teachers College, Weru Technical Institute among others,” he said. The Deputy President was accompanied by Tourism Cabinet Secretary Najib Balala, Tana River Governor Hussein Dado, Mr Mung’aro, Kilifi Woman Rep candidate Amina Mnyazi, senatorial candidate Ken Nyale among other poll hopefuls. 'NOT CHANGED' Mr Mung’aro, the Jubilee point man in the region, said: “The region has not changed in terms of development since I last served as mayor and Malindi MP”. He said: “All these schools and public amenities came up during my time”. The MP, who is seeking to unseat Governor Amason Kingi of ODM, accused him of under-developing the county due to corruption. Mr Dado, who is also seeking re-election on a Jubilee ticket, said the region, once considered an opposition stronghold, had changed its mind to support the ruling Jubilee administration. In Banda la Salama in Kilifi South, the DP gave Sh3 million for the rehabilitation of Kidutani Primary School.   Mr Kenyatta and Mr Ruto exert pressure on Mr Musyoka to abandon Odinga.