The stage is final set as veteran Limuru golfer Francis Kimani leads a field of 101 players in defence of his Coast Open Golf Championship title at the Links Mombasa Golf Club course this weekend.During last year s championship, the veteran Kimani, a former national team captain, fired rounds of 72 and 73 for a total of one over par 145, to beat the young players and walk away with the 104 years old Barry Cup.He does not feature in most of the national events although the two Coast events the Coast Open and Nyali Open are his favourite tournaments and he rarely misses them.But unlike last year, Kimani is likely to face a strong opposition from among other players, his club-mate John Karichu who is out to re-capture the Kenya Amateur Golf Championship (KAGC) series title. He is currently leading in the series and a victory at the Coast may enable him widen the gap in the 19-event series. Karichu, who has so far won the Sigona Bowl, Coronation Trophy and his home event, the Limuru Open, leads a group of plus one handicap golfers who include Vet Lab Sports Club s Mike Kisia and Edwin Mudanyi who won the Nyali Open last year, and Railway s Alfred Nandwa and Samuel Njoroge. My swing is back and will therefore try and win the title for the first time after finishing second to Mathew Wahome in 2014, said Karichu. Also eyeing the Barry Cup title will be Royal Nairobi Golf Club s Kenneth Bollo who is out to re-capture the KAGC Order of Merit title, formerly known as the Golfer of The Year title. Also playing at the Coast for the first time will be Kenya Amateur Matchplay Champion Joseph Gathumbi of Thika Sports Club who is so far the only amateur to have qualified for the 2018 Barclays Kenya Open. Gathumbi beat Edwin Mudanyi in the final match at Vet Lab, to book himself a place in the Open. He is among nine players playing off handicap one who includes local boy Agil Is-Haq who in the absence of South Africa-based and 2014 Coast Open champion Mathew Wahome, will lead the Coast challenge. This year, the event which is the 10th leg in the KAGC series is being sponsored by Crown Paints, Crown Beverages, Jimmy Mbugua, and Kenya Tourism Board. The first round on Saturday gets underway at 7am with the afternoon draw set for 11.50am. Meanwhile, a field of 200 golfers will be at the par 72 Ruiru Sports Club for the Friends of the Vice Captain tournament being sponsored by Oxygene Communications, a PR and marketing company which is venturing into golf sponsorship for the first time since its inception last year. Club vice captain Peter Mwaura says a lot will be in store for golfers including the usual Nyama Choma". At the same time, the Drive for Show competition is on today at Vet Lab Sports Club. The event is expected to bring together corporates and golfers in a concerted effort to raise funds for Team Kenya s participation in this year s International Long Drive Competition in Mexico in November.Kenya, has been represented in the Long Drive championship since it was introduced in 2015. VET LAB BUSYOn Saturday, Vet Lab will host the Inaugural Women in Energy Golf Tournament which will also be the launch of the Awards and Conference for 2017. The objective of the tournament is to continue creating awareness on the challenges facing women as they do business and further their careers in the sector.With an expected minimum of 200 players, the event presents an opportune moment for capacity building and networking for women in the sector. Key stakeholders and organisations will also be in attendance email print email print