Things do not just happen; they are caused to happen. Do not avoid meetings, debates or the poll station only to complain later that Kenya has wrong leaders and is headed in the wrong direction. Over the next five weeks, debate and agitate and, then, on August 8 vote to influence the next leadership and direction of Kenya. It will be absurd for you to claim no track with politics or not listen to what those who want to lead Kenya are broadcasting. DICTATE YOUR FUTURE It will be worse if you do not vote because come what may, somebody will be put in charge on August 8 anyway. Take part in shaping your lot and future because government will always speak and act in your name. Politics is about the way Kenya’s resources are distributed and managed and how this involves and affects you and posterity. Making choices about your future, your children’s and your grandchildren’s, must not be a gamble. POLITICAL ACTION As British Premier Theresa May says, politics is not a game. When you vote you choose how to order household, county and national economies and lives. If you vote for a politician who believes in doling out handouts to constituents, instead of one who believes in mobilising constituents and resources to build a road, you choose dependence over resourcefulness; you impede creativity to promote mediocrity; and you alienate community-based and long term investment, to foster individual and short term gain. How can you claim political action or inertia does not affect your life? RENTS Look, Mr Raila Odinga has said that he may consider caps on rents if he becomes president. Deputy President William Ruto retorted that Mr Odinga cannot do that because he does not own the houses. This is a major socio-political difference between the two men. Mr Odinga was saying houses are private property, but the government may intervene in rents on behalf of the public. Mr Ruto was saying because houses are private property, rents must be decided privately by landlords. STATE INTERVENTIONMay I extrapolate: One, while buses are private businesses, fares are borne by commuters and so government may mediate on behalf of the commuting public. Two, government is neither farmer nor shopkeeper, but when inflated prices of maize flour and the scarcity of it hit the struggling citizen hard, government must intervene and ensure Kenyans get their food entitlement. That’s what an Odinga government would presumably do. But Mr Ruto was saying the government has better things to worry about than rents for struggling masses. You either want a government that intercedes for the struggling majority or panders to the advantaged few. PUBLIC DEBATESWhy would you not want to be involved in these debates, be you a landlord or tenant, bus owner or commuter, property developer or town planner? You cannot argue that politics does not concern you when an acute shortage of housing leads to exorbitant rents, mushrooming slums and escalation of crime. If you do not know that, you cannot wisely choose between the two positions. Therefore, seek information and when you know, do not avoid debate or sharing. It may be your neighbour, workmate or taxi driver, who gives you the best reason to re-elect or reject President Kenyatta. INFORMED PUBLICAnd do not forget to discuss the economy. Which side has the better programme? Government will only deliver on its promises and more when the economy is thriving. The National Super Alliance qualifies to be a government-in-waiting if it provides the better alternative for expanding and managing the economy to Jubilee’s. The Old Testament says, come, let us reason together. Its prophets told truth to power and educated the people. ACCOUNTABILITY Jesus Christ encouraged debate of public affairs in public and brought their relevance to the public. You, too, have a responsibility to hold candidate and government accountable. This is why Nairobians must ask Mr Gideon ‘Sonko’ Mbuvi why he thinks his fresh sharp-suits, affected gentlemanly bearing and synthetic soft-spoken mien qualify him for election as governor. Why, he has spent seven years behaving like a gangster in a psychedelic nightmare! ELECTIONSLast, remember politics will not end on August 8. Stay engaged by debating and reminding your elected reps of democracy, their roles in it and election pledges. Politics is life; live it, love it and vote. Lenin said there are decades when nothing happens, and weeks when decades happen. In five weeks’ time, your vote may shape your ward, county and country for decades to come. Opanga is a commentator with a bias for politics wkopanga@gmail.com  