One of my 2017 New Year resolutions was to make good money from this year’s elections. As you may know, elections present a good opportunity for the bright to make money. From my plans, I wanted to make at least Sh75,000. It looks high but achievable. My house needs to be completed and I need to go to Mombasa for holiday. And these will not be achieved from the peanuts TSC gives me. As you may know, I made my first bit of money earlier in the year during voters’ registration. I played an important role in helping Kizito, a friend of my brother Pius and a candidate for ward rep seat to have his supporters register.  Besides getting new voters, we also went to neighbouring wards and facilitated people to come register in our ward for Kizito’s sake. I made a tidy sum from this exercise, although I wouldn’t want anyone to ask me where the money went to. Even I do not know. The second way I was going to make some money was during party nominations. From the onset, I had identified Kizito as my candidate. And we agreed with him that I will mobilise teachers.  I unlocked votes for him across many voting blocs: women, teachers, youth and Hitler’s patrons.  I also organised for a session for him to meet teachers who not only have votes, but are also influential in society. With all my efforts, Kizito did not make it. Which is not surprising given the way he mistreated teachers the day he met them. On that day, he reluctantly paid for our food and refused to pay for our drinks.  From that day, teachers promised to campaign against him and he lost with a landslide! But like all other politicians, Kizito did not accept the results and two weeks later, we saw his new posters: he is an independent. I believed that knowing how teachers contribute to his loss, he would try to mend fences with them. Kizito became aligned to another aspirant for MP position. This was a very rich man who has been contesting the seat long before I started voting, but has never won. The man, Simba, is known to dish out money especially to groups, and he is popularly known as Simba wa Miradi. 650 TEACHERS I was not going to lose out on this money. I contacted Kizito to organise a meeting with Simba wa Miradi to meet teachers. Kizito asked that I meet Simba alone first. The meeting was two weeks ago. Although I had been told to go alone, I went with Erick, a young teacher in a neighboring school. Simba wa Miradi welcomed us very well, but it was clear from the word go that Kizito wanted to control the discussions. “How many teachers are you?” he asked me. “In my ward they are 87 and I control about 69 of them,” I said. “Each teacher also comes with at least 30 votes as they will influence their spouses, parents, family and many other members of society.  This comes to over 2,070 votes for you from our ward only.” He asked about teachers in other wards. “This constituency has about 800 teachers. If I am facilitated, I can reach out to at least 650.” “That looks like a good number,” said Simba. “And since each teacher can get you 30 votes, those are 19,000 votes,” I said. Mr Simba was interested in having discussion with teachers, and he asked me to proceed with plans for a meeting. He went to his pocket and gave me a few notes. “That is for you and your friend. Please see me next Saturday so that we can plan the meeting with teachers.” Simba had given me Sh5,000 more than what TSC gives me every month after all deductions. There was no way I was going to give Erick half the amount, so I told him that I had been given Sh1,000 and gave him Sh500. He was very happy. I went into action immediately, reaching out to all the teachers I knew. I got a representative in each ward and we met at Kasuku Bar over a week ago. “This is our time,” said Mr Sande, one of the teachers who had come. “Simba Miradi has never done anything for teachers.” Mr Maina, Amos Maina to differentiate him from the useless one, is a deputy of St Theresa’s Girls. “And when we go to him, let us not accept small things like what he gives to women’s and bodaboda riders,” he said. I confirmed the appointment with Simba Miradi and I went to see him with a few representatives last Sunday at his home. People have money. I used to think that I am building an amazing house but I am ashamed to say that Mr Simba Miradi’s gate alone is more expensive than my house. The meeting started off well. After introductions, he sought to confirm that we are all registered in the constituency, which we did. IMPORTANT INFORMATION He was joined by a few of his aides who listened to our discussions and asked questions. One of them was a former councillor with whom I differed long ago. He was the chairman of Simba’s campaign team and was very critical of our presentation. After us answering all the questions, he told Simba to ignore teachers. “Don’t waste time with teachers, Mheshimiwa,” he said. “They will talk big here but come election day, they will all be serving as election officials. I know Mr Maina and Sande are presiding officers while Mwalimu Andrew here may be a polling clerk.” “Oh, that’s very important information,” said Simba. “Then how do we reach teachers, who are very many?” I tried to say how teachers are influential even if they will be servicing as election officials but the chairman disrupted me. “Is there anyone who still respects or listens to teachers? The teachers of today are known for drinking cheap chang’aa and sleeping with school girls and will never convince anyone to vote for a candidate. They can’t even convince their wives. Don’t waste your time with teachers Mheshimiwa.” He said with finality, and stood as a sign that the meeting was over. “Thank you Bwana Chairman for you great advice,” Simba wa Miradi said. “Teachers, thank you for your support but as advised let us keep engaging in other forums.” He took some money from an envelope and gave each of us Sh500 then dismissed us. And just like that, we had lost a great opportunity to make money! As we left his home, we all agreed that we will do everything to ensure that Simba does not go to Parliament.  