Q. I applied for a position in a marketing company that just started its operations in the city. In the job offer letter, it reads that our dressing should be “modest”. However, two weeks into the job, our supervisor insists that we wear skirts that are strictly above the knee. Could this be a red flag that there’s more to this company than what’s stipulated on the job offer?  Many organisations, and indeed institutions, have a dress code policy for good reasons - to ensure employees are well-groomed and presentable as they serve customers, to enhance the brand, and for safety and comfort especially in jobs that may require a lot of movement. Some policies can however be discriminatory and demeaning. We see many situations of front office staff who have to wear sky-high heels, tones of makeup, and dictated hairstyles to create a certain impression since they are the face of their organisations. How you dress speaks volumes about how you perceive yourself and how you want others to perceive you, therefore your dress code should be relative to your self-worth. If you want to be taken seriously, you will dress professionally, and if uncomfortable with what you are being asked to wear, speak up. I get the sense that your employer is asking you to wear short skirts to attract clients, presumably male clients; this is despicable, sexist, and borders on sexual harassment. It is inexcusable, so you do not have to comply, instead raise your objections at the earliest opportunity and escalate to senior managers if need be. You are employed to apply your professional training, skills and competencies at work, not your body. And so speak up for yourself and others and help your employer set the right standards from the word go. I am reminded of a recent case in the UK where a leading company sacked an employee for not adhering to the right shoe-heel policy, triggering a big debate on social media on discriminatory workplace dress codes. Back home, we have employers who continue to apply old policies that discourage employees from expressing their culture in their dress code. For instance, we have leading employers with dress code policies against basic cornrows, long natural hair, bold colours, dreadlocks, African attire: the list is endless. We have a generation that seeks to express themselves differently at the workplace, and employers should bear this in mind.  