Even though your walls might be nicely finished, sometimes you might need to have some  material placed on them  for decorative, protective or insulation purposes. This is known as siding or cladding, and the extra material can be placed on an interior or exterior wall. The cladding can be secured to the wall directly using mortar, or glued or pinned onto an intermediary layer such as a wooden sheet, says Mr Martin Rubare, an interior designer and the project administrator at Etlarge Interiors in Nairobi. “While its primary purpose is to add aesthetic appeal to the building, protecting the wall underneath is also a key reason for cladding,” says Mr Martin Wanyeri, the director of Interior Place Kenya. He adds that when properly done, cladding greatly improves the look of a house. Besides, it can help keep it warm. Cladding can be done using a variety of materials, including glass, metal, stucco, marble, porcelain and graphite, and the costs vary depending on the material used, says Mr Wanyeri. However, it is important to use the right material for the wall you’re cladding. Water leakage is  can greatly damage a house, making it cold and damp, causing mould to grow on the walls, or even make the house collapse.  To avoid this, you can use cladding which, apart from its aesthetic value, also keeps moisture at bay. THE INSIDE Interior wall cladding should not only form part of the décor, but also act as a thermal shield to keep the house warm during the cold season. In addition, it should absorb sound, making it perfect for noisy households and busy offices. Vinyl cladding, which is widely used because it is effective in wet areas and is relatively affordable, can be used in places with lots of rainfall or moisture. Aluminum composite cladding, which is durable, can also be used. Wood cladding is a good option for interiors since it is strong, with the knot scars and grains enhancing the exquisite look. However, it is costly to install and maintain. Engineered wood, which is made of wood chips mixed with resins and wax then heat and pressure-treated, is also good for use on interior walls and the ceiling. Particularly suitable for wet areas indoors, laminate cladding is better than ceramic tiles, for instance, and is commonly used in bathrooms. It is strong, does not chip or fade, and is cheaper compared with the other options. Stone cladding gives a natural look indoors, but while it is durable, it is costly to install. “The stone cladding available in the country include natural stone, mazeras, bluestone, yellow stone and coral stone, all of which offer varied aesthetics and give the walls a natural feel, depending on how they are installed,” says Mr Rubare. Meanwhile, brick cladding adds nice details on interior walls and is similar in quality to stone siding. Fibre cement, a fibre-reinforced, durable cement sheet or weatherboard, is probably among the best siding materials, particularly due to its strength and beauty. It has a wood-like finish, affordable and  requires little maintenance. THE OUTSIDE External siding calls for a material that, in addition to its aesthetic value, is also durable  and resistant to moisture. It should also contribute to energy efficacy by insulating the building. This makes insulated vinyl a good choice since it is provides insulation, is weather resistant,  and comes in easy-to-replace panels in case of damage. Stone cladding can also be used on outside walls and can be very attractive. It is also durable and needs little maintenance. However, installing it is labour-intensive and  quite  demanding. Metal and glass cladding are also elegant and beautiful, especially in offices and commercial building blocks, says  Mr Wanyeri. Metal cladding is strong and strong, weather-resistant and offers a range of decorative options. Cultured stone, a lightweight manufactured stone veneer is an equally good choice. Stucco is also used on outside walls  and can be applied directly on to block or brick walls or onto metal lathes as  an a  weatherproofing coat. It comes in a variety of finishes. Fibre cement is also viable for exteriors of walls and is mainly used on timber walls. It requires little maintenance and prevents damage by water and fire.  However, it  requires painting or sealing,  and does not offer much heat insulation. “Wood cladding may also be used on the exterior walls, but not extensively. And it has to be properly treated to protect it from the exterior’s adverse conditions,” says Mr Rubare. Mixed or composite cladding, which involves using a heavyweight cladding material on the lower parts of the building and a lighter one above, is also an option. But it needs to be done carefully because the joint between the two claddings can cause waterproofing and airtightness glitches. It is also costly since it involves overlapping materials, techniques and frameworks. 3D wall panelling is another practical technique to add creativity to your walls by giving the siding an extra dimension. Interestingly, any homeowners get to know the benefits of cladding only learn their walls needs repair.   