The opposition coalition Nasa has sought to neutralise the impact of President Uhuru Kenyatta s visit to Nyanza last week by telling residents the ruling regime had treated them like second-class citizens.At a series of rallies in Homa Bay County on Monday, the National Super Alliance brigade, led by presidential candidate Raila Odinga, accused Jubilee Party of neglecting the poor while benefiting the rich who are close to the presidency. The average Kenyan has no chance, Mr Odinga said at various stops, including Kendu Bay, Suba and Ndhiwa and Homa Bay Town. It is a rigged system in favour of the elite. If we make them to stand in line like everyone else and stop them from benefiting from the crises they create, believe me, the shortages will disappear. There will be plenty to go around.MAIZE SHORTAGE That is what we intend to do. We will not allow government officials to create a maize shortage so that they can supply the same. It is happening now but it will not happen after this election. President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto were in the region last week and launched a Sh1 billion bridge, pledged a new road and created a district. Yet, Mr Odinga said the projects in the region were those initiated during his tenure as Prime Minister in the Grand Coalition government. The last development projects initiated in this region are those which I helped to influence while I served the country as Prime Minister, claimed Mr Odinga.Speaking at Homa Bay County Stadium, Mr Odinga said the coalition would strive to develop all parts of the country irrespective of tribe or political affiliation.CORRUPTIONHis Nasa co-principals at the rally accused the government of corruption and inefficiency.Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang ula faulted National Cohesion and Integration Commission (NCIC) chairman Francis ole Kaparo over his recent plan to work with the Communications Authority of Kenya to disable social media platforms during the voting period. Mr Kaparo has lost direction in his attempt to gag Kenyans in social media, said Mr Wetang'ula.LOWASSAHe also criticised Tanzanian opposition leader Edward Lowassa over his recent endorsement of President Kenyatta s re-election. You should not accept to be given handouts so that you fail to turn out to vote, said Mr Musalia Mudavadi.At a rally in Oyugis Town, Mr Odinga said Jubilee s failures were quite obvious. No one has been spared, said Mr Odinga. Even the residents in Uhuru s backyard are crying over the oppressive cost of living and exorbitant food prices. Sugar, flour, milk and other commodities are beyond reach of most Kenyans. email print email print Deputy President William Ruto tells the nation to forget TJRC report