At least 10 people have been killed in road crashes in Narok and Kisii counties. In Narok, five people among them four secondary schoolgirls travelling home for the August holidays died Friday in a crash involving a matatu and a lorry at Maltauro on Narok-Mai Mahiu road. Two students died on the spot while two others succumbed to injuries on arrival at the hospital in the accident that occurred at noon. HOSPITALISEDNine of the passengers in the 14-seater matatu among them students from different high schools in Narok are hospitalised. One of the dead students has been identified as from Ole Tipis Girls High School in Narok town. The critically injured were rushed to Narok County Referral Hospital for emergency operations and bodies taken to the facility’s mortuary. DRIVER ESCAPESA police report said the ill-fated Nairobi-bound matatu was hit from the rear by a tipper lorry. “Both vehicles were descending from the Nairagie Enkare hills towards Mai Mahiu when the lorry driver lost control of the vehicle and hit the matatu, which was ahead of him," Narok police boss Joseph Kisombe said. Mr Kisombe said the lorry driver fled after the accident and police are following leads to arrest him. BOY DIESIn Kisii, at least two more people have died following a grisly accident that occurred on Kisii-Kilgoris road on Wednesday evening. Health officials Friday said the death toll has climbed to five among them a son of Kisii Central MCA Wilfred Monyenye, Dickson Monyenye. Also dead was a 12-year-old who was knocked while walking on the road. The politician’s son was on a bicycle when he was hit.RECOVERYAt least 15 people, some of them pedestrians, were injured during the 3pm incident. Dr Enock Ondari of the Kisii Teaching and Referral Hospital said one of the patients who sustained chest injuries will be transferred to an advanced health facility for specialised treatment. “Doctors in these hospitals are doing their best and so far many of them are out of danger,” Dr Ondari told reporters outside Hema Hospital where 12 patients are hospitalised. The accident occurred when a pickup with 12 mourners enroute to Hema mortuary to pick the body of a family member rammed into a Nissan van heading to Kilgoris from Kisii.  