President Uhuru Kenyatta on Sunday promised to create 6.5 million jobs in the coming five years. In a televised Facebook live chat with followers, the President said the standard gauge railway, roads, electricity and other infrastructural projects would help address unemployment. “My action plan will transform the progress we have made in the last four years into benefits. "Over the next five years, my government will create 6.5 million extra quality jobs, especially for the youth,” the President said. NATION AGENDA: Unemployment is a drag on the economy ECONOMYDuring the 2013 poll campaigns, Mr Kenyatta pledged that his administration would create a million jobs every year. The promise fell short by about 200,000. Raising the bar to 1.5 million jobs annually appears to be a tall order but he said it was achievable. LOVE With a day to a televised debate, which he might skip, President Kenyatta answered questions sent in advance and which covered the economy, corruption, the elections and infrastructure projects. “We must love one another. And this message coming on a Sunday morning as some of us are in church, I ask you to make this prayer: that we can live by His word. That we can love one another,” he said from State House. YOUTHGiven that 51 per cent of the 19.6 million registered voters fall in the 18-35 age bracket, Mr Kenyatta structured his answers — and chose questions — with the youth in mind. He said he is willing to hand over power if he loses on August 8. “I am busy campaigning with the hope that Kenyans will give me a chance to continue with the good work we have done. "But if it is the will of Kenyans that another one should do it, I will do everything in my power to hand over power,” he said. PEACE“But I ask Kenyans to give me an opportunity to go on with the work we have done, to create a peaceful and harmonious Kenya.” READ: Fear of chaos real as police assure of peace He praised the Kenyan spirit, saying countrymen had shown that they were inclined to democracy and peaceful elections. “Do not resort to violence. Let us use legal means, judicial means, to iron out our issues,” he said.  