History beckons for Kenyan race walkers Dominic Samson and Lenah Nanjala when they field in their respective events Saturday morning at the World Under-18 Championships at Kasarani. It will be particularly inspiring for Samson who is eager to pull off something good in boys’ 10,000m race walk in the presence of his role model Nyandika Maiyoro, who is among the legendary Kenyan athletes attending the world youth competition. Nanjala takes to the track in girls’ 5,000m race walk final inspired by Julius Yego, who beat the odds to make history by winning the World javelin title and claimed Olympics silver medal. It’s Maiyoro who advised Samson to follow his heart and embrace the sport he loved most regardless of what people thought about the so called “small disciplines.” Samson takes to the track with Maiyoro’s advice at the back of his head. “He told me it didn’t matter which event he would chose, but the hard work, commitment, discipline and passion I would put in,” said Samson, who is raring to make Kenya proud. It goes without saying that Maiyoro’s touch has transformed Samson in to a champion, winning the national secondary schools race walk title at the World Under-18 national trials at Nyayo where he timed 44:14.9 for victory. “Let Kenyans pray for us …and let them also come early to the stadium to cheer us,’ said the 17-year-old Samson, who is a Form Two student at Kiandege Secondary School in Nyamira County. Samson, who embraced race walk while in class six, should have represented Kenya at the previous World Under-18 Championships held in2015 in Cali, Colombia, but his travelling documents delayed. “God’s time is always the best and I am looking forward to a great race,” said Samson. Nanjala, a Class Eight pupil at Matili Primary School, says she won’t be cowed by her inexperience on the international scene. “We are going into the event on equal terms hence no pressure,” she said.   Keringet area of Kuresoi South has produced some of Kenya’s revered world beaters.