The Ministry of Education has launched a programme aimed at having secondary school students develop more innovative and technological projects that will position them as global innovators. Young Scientist Kenya (YSK) will give young students the opportunity to demonstrate that science, technology and engineering are not only interesting and exciting, but also easy to do. The programme will be the premier national secondary schools competition for science and technology in the country. It is meant to complement the Kenya Science and Engineering Fair and other inter-school competitions in the science, technology, engineering and mathematics (Stem) realm. STRENGTHEN TECHNOLOGY In his speech read by acting director of Basic Education Robert Masese, Education Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i said his ministry had put in place several strategies to strengthen technology in schools. Dr Matiang’i said the government will launch a Stem school in every county in the first phase once the new education system is rolled out. Additional Stem schools will be set up once the project is fully implemented. “Helping incentivise students to excel in science will directly impact on Kenya’s social and economic development,” said Dr Matiang’i. READ: Selected schools to act as centres to promote sciences The initiative has been put in place by the Education ministry in collaboration with the Embassy of Ireland and the Blaze youth platform of Safaricom. NIQUE IN EAST AFRICA The platform, one of its kind in East Africa, aims at helping young people across Kenya to demonstrate and showcase their scientific talents. It is based on the British Telecom (BT) Young Scientist and Technology Exhibition of Ireland, founded in the 1960s. Blaze by Safaricom will offer YSK support to mobilise and enrol students for the pilot phase to be held in 10 counties over the next year before it is rolled out as a national programme. Already, Safaricom has injected Sh20 million for the initial implementation for one year. FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE Ireland’s Ambassador to Kenya, Dr Vincent O’Neill, said the Irish government will continue supporting and providing financial assistance to strengthen the relationship with the country. “In Ireland, the Young Scientist and Technology Exhibition has hugely contributed to the uptake of science in secondary schools and the quality of its teaching,” said Dr O’Neill. He added: “I have no doubt that similar benefits will occur in Kenya as a result of the launch of the Young Scientist Kenya.” PROVIDING KEY LINKS YSK is envisaged to advance the learning of science in high school by providing key links between secondary schools and tertiary colleges. The winners of the competition will be invited to engage with interest private sector companies and participate in international science and technology events. The head of consumer services at Safaricom, Mr Charles Wanjohi, said the company is committed to supporting use of technology in schools.  