“We must come to see that the end we seek is a society at peace with itself. A society that can live with its conscience” Rev Martin Luther King Junior.  YOU CAN ALWAYS tell a seeker when you meet one. It’s all in the eyes, where you glimpse a certain wanderlust, hunger or intensity that seems to burn through you. Similarly, you can spot your seeker children, they are the ones who always go farthest from the nest during play, those that make new friends easily or tear things apart just to put them back together again. Seekers are intrigued by the question, why? You can also tell a sleeper when you meet one too. These are the folks waiting for something or someone to activate them, to turn them on to something, to fix them. Just like in those science fiction movies, sleepers are in a state of predictable limbo, waiting for someone to waken them. The main difference between seekers and sleepers is their state of consciousness. They may have the same genetic make-up, skills and capabilities but they exist on different planes and perspectives. Sadly something happens to us, dulling our seeking heart the older we grow. Perhaps it’s the responsibilities and realities of life that keep us in our comfort zones. Perhaps it is failing so often or the fear of failing. Eventually, we begin to play it safe and before you know it, every year looks pretty much like the last one. Lord forbid that we get to the end of our lives consumed by regret at what we failed to do or become. ASLEEP TO THE BEAUTY A close friend who seeks new experiences through travel says she is most excited when she is in the air. Her perspective is, “Not going beyond your village or city is like having a big house and not going beyond your bedroom!” she likes to insist. While she seeks travel, there are others who seek to simply just do good. These are people who love to create solutions and reduce human suffering. They want to know, “What can be done?” While I appreciate extreme sports thrill seekers, it has never been my cup of tea. I don’t think screaming your head off bungee jumping is a great way to meet new people. Thank you very much, but if it is all the same to you, I prefer to keep my tonsils private. Yet when I ask friends or relatives who engage in extreme sports what they feel when jumping off a plane, the answer is almost unanimous. They usually say they feel ‘alive’. While I don’t need to stand as close to the edge of a cliff to feel my life pulsing in my ears, I do get antsy with sameness and predictability. Most of us have a little of both seeker and sleeper depending on which part of our psyche is self aware. Sadly, sleepers are usually “asleep” to the beauty or adventure around them. Because of this, they are more likely to miss out on life. So sleep less and seek more. Be a seeker of all that is good and noble. And if you wonder what else you can seek, seek answers, meaning, purpose, love, joy, passion and truth. Seek to understand. Seek to be awake to the world and your very existence. The latest slang my nieces recently taught me is that cool or “with it” people are now referred to as being “woke”. I like that because it speaks of being conscious to yourself and others as well as the earth we live in. The world is usually changed by seekers who seek to better human endeavour and progress than those who are caught up in indecision and waiting for life to happen for them. Why not promise yourself an adventure every couple of years and spend a year planning to seek it? The good book is clear in its promise that those who ask, receive, and those who seek, find.  