Do you think you will ever have enough albums to tell all your stories? What haven t you told your fans?Time runs out on everybody. At some point I ll have no more albums to give, so I hope I will have told my story by then. There s a lot more vulnerability I ll have to explore in my life and I think that s the secret and strength of any artiste, finding that vulnerability. When you look at your own family, there are stories you can tell about that one cousin. I have only told stories about my father, mostly, so I think I will be telling more stories about family and what life is like now. When you are in this lifestyle, you have to sacrifice your family a lot. You use the N word in your music?What word? What is it? (Laughs) I m joking. It s funny when people say the N word; they force you to say it in your own head (laughs). You say N word and in my head I say n***a. Do you think you give it power when you use it in your music?The thing is, the so-called N word was popularised by people in America. It s not that big of a deal in the black community, but it is when people who are not of African descent use it, like a white person. That is a big deal, for sure. In Africa now, it s used the way black Americans use it. I m pretty sure in Lagos or Nairobi 100 years ago it wasn t as common to say that from a black person to a black person. I think it depends on who says it, and how it s said. But I like it when it s said as a term of endearment. What are your vulnerabilities?If I tell you, I ll have to kill you (laughs). Some of the ones I ve shown thus far are with women. Bambi is an example of a record where... I ve never written a record like that, I ve never showed love, a desire or a longing that you feel like you ve lost. I talk about drinking in a hotel and crying, searching through Instagram trying to look at a love that was lost. A lot of rappers and artistes in general tend to hide that, so it s like de woman she dey come to me, man (in Nigerian pidgin); the man is in control. But I like to show the moments that the man isn t in control. I tend to show that way more. The rest of the insecurities will have to wait for the next album. Would you shave your beard?No. Why?This is how I feel great, and God tells me to look this way. Until I feel something else and the high spirits tell me cut off your beard and go bald , which I ve done before, or wear dreadlocks or braids, which I ve done before as well. Or a fade, a low taper or a big afro, I ll be looking like this. I mean that s why everybody here looks the way they do and hopefully you feel cool about yourself when you look in the mirror. If you don t, you need to cut your hair (smiles). The song Bambi is different from what you ve done before. Is there someone in real life, a woman, that got away?Yes, probably several. That is a record about a real woman and she is probably out there listening to it. All the art I do is based on a true story. What motivates you to be the artiste that you are?What keeps me focused is the mission before us. It s time to get it done and get it done quickly because we are behind. I don t think about anything else in my life except devoting my time to building a bridge between the African diaspora. You were accepted to Harvard but rejected it and went to Stanford where you did a different major, sound engineering, but later switched to music. Does the fact that you re smart show in your music?I don t think your intelligence is based on your schooling. You can be schooled by the streets and be smarter than a person who went to Harvard. I believe I m intelligent because my family told me I m smart. If you tell a goat long enough that it s smart, the goat will not only be climbing a mountain, it will be on a bicycle doing tricks. Of course, I m smart because people told me that, and I live in a culture where I m from Nigeria you want to be the cr me of the crop. That s how we are, so I was blessed to come from that. It s not where I went to school; it s that I was creating my own path. I started with engineering and could ve stuck to it.But I saw a different path and I created a major called Ritual Art. And when I told my family they said ah, na, juju man; why are you studying to be a shaman; you wan be a witch doctor . I had to explain to them it s not about witchcraft, but about why people are entranced or brainwashed so that, hopefully, I could cast my own spell. What inspires you from Africa?That I m from here, I never look at myself as an American coming here. I m an African that moved to America and not the other way around. I m excited now that artistes around the world are looking to Africa heavily, and every year seems more and more so. This is an important time. Have you listened to Kenyan music; what do you think about it?You mean like Victoria Kimani? It is cool because she is an expat. My understanding is that she left the States and came here. I heard Sauti Sol a couple of years ago on an Instagram clip; I felt like, okay, there is a certain soul that y all have here. Everyone has a different thing wherever you go. Here, it actually has the kind of soul that I love and it s unique to Kenya. I find that along the east coast of Africa, there is some magic in the vibrancy of the voice. This trip is probably too short but what I m looking for, when I have a longer stay, is to feel where that is coming from. How was it working with Kendrick Lamar?He is a masterful artiste, a master of his craft, a rappers rapper and he s a great man. He is the street poet of our time; people have called him the Bob Dylan of our time. To me, he s like a sage, like a monk rapper. To be on a song with him was great because I respect him. It was like two years ago when we released the Classic Man remix, us being on phone, him speaking to my longevity as an artiste and seeing that far when I was in my rookie year, it meant a lot. When I think of Kendrick, the first thing that comes to mind is respect. You have a unique sense of fashion, where does the inspiration come from?I think what inspires everybody, you look at Instagram and somebody looks fly, you try and copy that. Then you flip and take it somewhere else. Take it to a tailor, at least that s what our crew does, then you flip it. I think that I represent a growth movement of men across the world that is interested in refining their dressing because they have refined their minds. I m not saying I look like this all the time I can be in t-shirts, and Timberland boots and chucks , but you can tell by the detail. Maybe the t-shirt is rolled up, they put a little bit of care... The least we can do is look alright. When I go to downtown Nairobi, I m sure I will be picking up things. I m excited to be meeting with Zedekiya Lukoye as I go shopping.What s the craziest that a fan has done to you?I don t know, I have really good security, so (laughs) Any bizarre rumour you ve had about yourself?It s not really a rumour but miscommunication. Early in 2015 when I had an interview with Vlad TV, there was a miscommunication in how people thought I perceive myself versus how I was saying other people perceive me. I learnt how to make sure that I m very clear because while you re talking to one person, I m talking to millions. Do you believe in witchcraft?Of course it exists, yeah, there s no question. I ve seen enough with my own eyes, and I ve run from enough with my own legs, so yeah (laughs). I believe in God, I believe in all that exists, so how can I not believe in witchcraft, in aliens? What do I know, and what do you know, we just got here. Now, would I use it? Not unless I m trying to get my football team to win, that s the only reason. Do you have a girlfriend?No I don t, I ve said this before but it s worth repeating, a relationship is like a garden, and you have to be there to tend the plants, to water them. I don t have enough time to water the plants. I just live in hotels and music videos; those are my relationships for now. Is that a decision you made after Bambi ?(Laughs) Yes, after Bambi. But that s a sacrifice I have to make right now. I m in the early part of my career; I have to run this fast and as consistently as I can; and if anyone knows about marathons, it s Kenyans! email print email print