 Deputy President William Ruto and Tourism Cabinet Secretary Najib Balala have scoffed at Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho for what they claim is “exhibiting little education”. Mr Ruto and Mr Balala scoffed at the governor’s persistent claims that the Jubilee government intends to transfer the Mombasa port to Naivasha. Speaking at the Junda playground in Kisauni Constituency, Mombasa County on Thursday Mr Ruto asked the crowd how possible it is to move a sea port to a place without water. READ: Naivasha dry port angers Joho “Your governor claims that the Jubilee government wants to relocate the port of Mombasa to Naivasha. I want to ask you, how possible is it to transfer a port to a place that does not even have water? This is as a result of someone with little education. I am asking Governor Joho to go back to school because education is now free,” said Mr Ruto. READ: Naivasha port ‘won’t hurt Coast economy’ - State DRY PORT Mr Balala repeated the DP’s sentiments saying the governor should go back to school because his education is too little. Mr Joho has publicly admitted that he got D- in his Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) exams. Governor Joho has opposed plans to set up a dry port Naivasha arguing that it will rob Coast youth thousands of jobs and seriously affect the region’s economy. The port issue has been top on the political agenda of both Jubilee and Nasa especially when they campaign at the Coast. READ: Uhuru defends Naivasha port plan TITLE DEEDS While campaigning in Mombasa, Mr Ruto, who was accompanied by the Jubilee’s Mombasa gubernatorial candidate Suleiman Shahbal, promised that if re-elected on August 8, the Jubilee administration will resolve the long-standing land problem Junda settlement scheme and issue squatters with title deeds. He expressed confidence that Jubilee will defeat Nasa in the polls “because citizens will elect leaders with a working manifesto”. “We have information that Nasa’s manifesto was prepared by chief corruption cartels and so it is only (intended) to serve those cartels and not Kenyans,” he said. He said after the elections in August, the Jubilee administration will give Mr Odinga a good retirement package so that “he can go home and rest, relax and retire in peace”.  