Kwanthanze and Sengera SDA on Saturday won the girls' and boys' Airtel Rising Stars National Term Two B Games volleyball titles at Moi Nyeri Complex Primary School. Kwanthanze from Eastern Region claimed their third national title after beating Cheptil 3-0 (25-19, 25-19, 25-25) in the girls' final.Nyanza Region's Sengera, who finished fourth last year, rallied from a set down to down East Africa champions Malava Boys 3-1 (17-25, 25-23, 25-22,25-19) to win their maiden trophy.It was sweet victory for Kwanthanze, who missed out on last year's nationals in Kisumu. The 2013 and 2014 winners were dethroned by AIC Kosirai in 2015, that same year they relinquished their East Africa trophy to GS Indagaburezi of Rwanda. RECLAIMED THE TITLELast year, they never made it past the now defunct Metropolitan Region after losing to Soweto Academy to miss out on the nationals. Kwanthanze coach Justine Kigwari lauded his charges for reclaiming the gong and is now looking forward to taking back the regional crown."It was a brilliant performance from the girls because we got better with each match. We now train our eyes on Uganda where we want to better this result," the coach said. "Most of the players were new to this level of competition but I'm glad they made me and the school proud," Kigwari added.The match was stopped in the third set after a Cheptil player got injured and had to be rushed to hospital. Play resumed seven minutes later and Kwanthanze comfortably cruised to victory.Kwanthanze were undoubtedly the best side winning the trophy without dropping a single set. Last year's nationals and East Africa silver medalists Soweto beat former holders Lugulu 3-1 (23-25, 25-18, 25-15, 25-22) to snatch the last ticket to the regional games.In the boys' final, Sengera showed real fighting spirit to see off the highly fancied Malava. After losing the first set, they came back composed and stronger taking charge of the game and winning the next three sets to deny Malava a fifth national title. Last year's winners Cheptil ensured they secured a ticket to Gulu, Uganda for this year's East Africa extravaganza with a win against newcomers Kangundo. They won in straight sets of 25-18, 26-24 and 25-20 in the third place playoffs. email print email print Wiyeta coach Edgar Manyara said the win made up for last year's loss.