Ongoing political campaigns ahead of August 8 General Elections will not affect the World Under-18 Championships, Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinett has said.Speaking Saturday, Boinett said that there would be enough personnel to take care of security issues during the championship, adding that the General Elections and the competition will be held on separate dates, giving security agencies no challenge to handle them. Everything is in place and our security apparatus are on top of things and are ready to welcome our visitors, said Boinett, who toured Kasarani and the athletes village at Kenyatta University.The World Under-18 Athletics Championship will start on July 12 and end on July 16 at Kasarani.Boinett was speaking at Kasarani where Interior Cabinet Secretary Joseph Nkaissery and his Sports counterpart Hassan Wario conducted a dry run.Local Organising Committee (LOC) chairman, Jackson Tuwei, World Under-18 and LOC Chief Executive Officer Mwangi Muthee and Kenyatta University s acting Vice Chancellor Prof Paul Wainaina took the government officials on a tour of the accommodation and competition s facilities. Nkaissery, who also assured the country and visiting teams of adequate security and urged local politicians who are campaigning for votes to urge their supporters to come and cheer Kenyan youth as they take on the world starting on July 12. We shall be glad if we are to have them turn up in numbers at Kasarani to boost our youth, just like they do at political rallies, said Nkaissery.Nkaissery said that since 2013, the government has recruited close to 30,000 police officers hence there will be no shortage of security officers both for campaigns and the world youth competition. Nkaissery said that the competition s venue will be closed for the next four days to enable organisers mark lanes on the new artificial track. Wario said the team will make another visit to the stadium and Kenyatta University on Sunday to assess a clean-up exercise at the venue, adding that the success of the world youth event will unlock the country s potential in other areas. We have invested a lot and worked tirelessly to make this event happen. We are now asking Kenyans to turn out in numbers and fill this stadium, said Wario. We want to host major events likes the World Championships in future but that is pegged on the success of the youth event. email print email print Muthee said the rich legacy the championships will leave should not be left to go in vain.