Understrength Mombasa Olympic Ladies take on defending champions Thika Queen in a top-of-the-table Kenya Women Premier League match at Mbaraki Sports Club in Mombasa on Sunday. Olympic, under the guidance of Joseph Oyoo, one of women’s football founders will be without nine of their regular players who are set to travel with Kwale Girls for Nyeri to participate in the National Secondary Schools Term 2B Games that begin on Tuesday. Oyoo told Nation Sport that they will play league leaders Thika Queens without nine players. They are Mejumaa Kombo (goalkeeper), Winnie Atieno, Raisy Sulvia, Firdaus Genge, Mercy Aluoch (defenders), Teresia Gakii, Hellen Munyua (midfielders), Gladys Chikophe and Elizabeth Katungwa (strikers). But Oyoo said he was not worried at all because the remaining players would do the job and upset the Thika-based team. The team’s line-up will likely include experienced players the likes of Harambee Starlets dependable striker Mwanahalima Adam and trialist Nuru Mustafa. Other experienced players to feature today include the team captain Gererder Akinyi, Winnie Achieng, Linvis Achieng, Venereka Mkoa, Regina Shehe, Mariam Bidii, Dorothy Akinyi, Quinta Atieno and Mary Wali. “I’ve high hopes of winning the match against Thika because most of the players I’m going to field have featured in big matches before,” said Oyoo, who is aiming to complete the first leg with 15 points. Thika Queens chairman Fred Chege said they were in Mombasa to collect maximum points and would field their strongest line-up, including their three in form strikers, Mercy Achieng, Lucy Bakhwana and Catherine Wangeci together with midfielder Fauzia Omar. “We’ve come to the Coast to collect all the three points. We are confident of winning,” said Chege. SPEDAG HOST SOCCER SISTERS In another league fixture, Coast’s Spedag Ladies will be aiming to climb up from sixth to fourth place when they entertain Soccer Sisters from Nairobi at Mombasa Sports Club Sunday. Spedag coach Cristine Nanjala said they will play their opponents without Starlets midfielder Elizabeth Mwikali who is nursing a knee injury, Harriet Fakir and Terry Ouko. However, Nanjala said they have a number of Starlets players who she hopes will help them win the game. The Starlets players in the team are Samantha Akinyi, Caroline Omondi, Wendy Achieng, Jack Ogoll, Sharon Bushenei, Cherish Avilia, Doris Anyangu and Esse Mbeyu Akida.  