First Lady Margaret Kenyatta has urged Kwale residents to vote for Jubilee leaders in the August 8 elections, saying that the ruling administration has delivered on its pledges. Speaking Tuesday during a women empowerment meeting convened by the Maendeleo Ya Wanawake Organisation (MYWO) in Kwale County, Mrs Kenyatta urged women to vote for President Uhuru Kenyatta to enable him complete his development programmes for the country. "I have come to ask you (that) on August 8 this year you vote for Uhuru Kenyatta so that he can deliver on his promises as well as to continue with his work," she said, urging women to vote for progress to transform the country. The First Lady promised to support women acquire skills and seed funding to kick-start their businesses. WORK WITH MYWO She assured the women from the county that she will work closely with the MYWO to enable many of them train and acquire the necessary skills and resources to start and manage their own enterprises. “Women will continue to be my priority just as the Jubilee government has in the last four years invested in women by providing funding opportunities through the various funds specifically targeted for women and the youth”, said the First Lady. She gave President Kenyatta’s assurance that, when re-elected on August 8, the Jubilee administration will continue with investments and expansion of women enterprises through specific funds. “And President Uhuru Kenyatta has promised that, when re- elected, he and the Jubilee government will continue the investments and expand women enterprises to empower women so that they can support their families”, she said. FIGHT POVERTY She added that the government will continue making a difference in the fight against poverty and provide social safety nets that will change the lives of communities so that all Kenyans meet their basic needs. She said the Beyond Zero mobile clinics have greatly changed the lives and health fortunes of Samburu people especially mothers and children. She said Kwale County was among the first counties she visited in March 2014 to deliver Beyond Zero mobile clinics and since then she has devoted her time and energy to working and travelling to all the 47 counties. "In 2014 I made a promise that no woman will suffer unnecessary death while giving birth and that no child should die of preventable causes," she said, noting that the journey required time, effortless commitment and resources to improve the health and well-being of women and children. She thanked the communities for embracing the Beyond Zero campaign, saying she is making another commitment to continue the work of serving them. FREE MATERNITY "In 2013 the president promised free maternity so that babies born in hospital can have a chance to live and today this promise is true. Women can also access free healthcare for their new born babies for a year," she said. She said that the Jubilee administration has pledged to support education for all as their main priority because President Kenyatta's government believes that good health and education will go hand in hand to uplift the standard of every community in the country. "To demonstrate that, the Jubilee administration has set aside funds to refurbish public primary schools and provide free secondary education, so that in January all children in public schools can have free education from Class One to Form Four," said the First Lady. Ms Kenyatta also donated sanitary towels and shoes to students of Matuga Girls High School. She was accompanied by Kwale Woman Representative Zainab Chidzuga and Maendeleo Ya Wanawake Chairperson Rahab Mwikali who pledged to support President Kenyatta's re-election. 
 