The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission is pondering how to address the death of Mr Leonard Mwamba, the Jubilee Party candidate for the Kitutu Chache South parliamentary seat, less than a month to the General Election. Mr Mwamba died Friday evening after a road accident near Nyakoe Trading Centre in Kisii County. RALLY He was heading for a campaign rally in Mosocho. Mr Mwamba, 39, was in the company of two people, one of whom also died on the spot. A child who was heading home from school was also killed when the politician’s car veered off the road and crashed into a ditch. A source said he was taking sportswear to a primary school in the constituency before the pupils went home. REPLACE On Saturday, the IEBC spokesman Andrew Limo said the commission will deliberate on the way forward. "The law is clear within the case of the presidential election since it states that it should be postponed in such circumstances. "The commission will make a decision on whether this applies to other elective positions or the affected may just be told to give a replacement," Mr Limo said in a statement. CONDOLENCE The death of the Nairobi-based businessman was greeted with shock from various quarters. Kisii Governor James Ongwae said he is mourning with the families of the victims. "I learnt [of] Mr Mwamba’s death with shock. I convey my heartfelt condolences to the family and the Kitutu Chache South residents," he said. ELECTIONKitutu Chache South MP Richard Onyonka said Mr Mwamba’s death came at an unfortunate time. He described him as a man of rare buoyance and free spirit. "I knew him as a politician with a bright future. It is unfortunate that he died in this manner. He has left a big gap in Kitutu Chache South politics," the legislator said. FOCUSJubilee Party leaders in Kisii led by senatorial aspirant Charles Nyachae said they had lost a committed member. "We have lost a strong and committed team member who believed in going an extra mile for the party at all times. "We will dearly miss his energy, focus, drive and passion in our campaigns," Mr Nyachae said. SECOND CHANCEMr Nyachae called on party supporters to help deliver victory for its candidates as the best way to honour the deceased's memory. Mr Mwamba was vying for the seat for the second time. In 2013 he contested on a National Vision Party ticket and got 155 votes. Others who sent condolences are Kisii Senator Chris Obure and candidates Donya Aburi (Woman Rep ) and Mr Jeremiah Matoke (ODM, Bomachoge Borabu constituency). Mr Mwamba had been taken to Christamarianne Mission Hospital in Kisii where he was pronounced dead.   Mwamba was vying for Kitutu Chache parliamentary seat.