Differences between Jubilee and Nasa politicians played out at Interior Cabinet Secretary Joseph Nkaissery’s home in Ilbisil on Sunday, when Kajiado Governor David Nkedianye and Kajiado Central MP Kanchori Memusi were barred from entering the house on the orders of the family. Also denied entry were former Kenya Meat Commission chief Taraiya ole Kores and Wiper candidate for county woman rep Simayiai Rakita. Apart from religious leaders, others who addressed the gathering included County Commissioner Harsama Kello, Kajiado South MP Katoo ole Metito, National Transport and Safety Authority Director-General Francis Meja, Agriculture Principal Secretary Richard Lesiyampe and Narok Woman Representative Soipan Tuya. PRIMARIES Mr Meja is also the chairman of the burial committee. After the prayers, the MC invited leaders for a meal at Mr Nkaissery’s house. That is where the Nasa leaders were denied entry. Mr Kores decamped to the opposition when he lost in the Jubilee nominations for Kajiado governor to Joseph ole Lenku. ODM OFFICES BURN A family source told the Nation that youths were restrained from evicting Dr Nkedianye and Mr Memusi from the prayer service “so as not to cause a scene”. Mr Nkaissery was not on the best of terms with the two politicians, especially Mr Memusi. Matters came to a head when ODM offices in Kajiado were gutted by unknown people on July 1. RECORD STATEMENT On July 4, Dr Nkedianye and Mr Memusi convened a press conference at the ODM offices and said the minister was threatening them. They also said Jubilee was behind the arson. They were accompanied by ODM Director of Elections Judy Pareno. They later went to the Directorate of Criminal Investigations offices in Kajiado town to record statements. Contacted for comment later, the Cabinet secretary said he would sue the two for defamation. CAUSE OF DEATHSpeakers at the prayer meeting urged Kajiado residents not to speculate on the cause of Mr Nkaissery’s death. “There is a lot of speculation. People want to know what caused the death of Nkaissery,” Mr Kello said. “Everything is under control. The government also wants to know the cause of the death and will ensure it gets answers.” SHOCKMr Meja told the gathering that the minister's widow, Hellen, was responding well to treatment. “I visited her in hospital today and she was fine. She is not sick but recovering from the shock of losing her husband,” Mr Meja said. He also urged the youth to stop making alarming statements on social media. Mr Metito called for investigations, adding that the deaths of Mr Nkaissery, George Saitoti in 2012, and William ole Ntimama in September last year were similar. SAITOTI KILLED The government was hard-pressed to fully explain the circumstances that led to Mr Nkaissery's death. Close family members and friends demanded a comprehensive investigation into the death, which they suggested was suspicious. Former Narok North MP Moses ole Marima said people who knew him were yet to come to terms with his death. “His death is a big blow to the Maa people. We have never known what killed minister George Saitoti. Will we know what killed Nkaissery?” an emotional Mr Marima asked. TRUTH “She (Mrs Nkaissery) told me he arrived home jolly, had dinner and joked. It is sad when one takes the life of another. "If that is true, and I pray it is not, we want the truth to come out. “When do we become a nation that we purport to be when every so often we cut short the life of a rising star?” he asked. PEACEFULFormer military chief Jeremiah Kianga said authorities investigating Mr Nkaissery’s death should do so speedily and make public the cause. “It was with tremendous shock that we learnt of his demise. We hope to know the truth about his death on time,” he said. Democratic Party leader Joseph Munyao said he knew the minister as a peaceful man and, therefore, could not associate his death with any political enemies. TRIBUTEBut Mr Munyao said it should be of great concern to Kenyans that the country’s head of security died suddenly. “I am pleading with the authorities to get to the bottom of the matter. It is not easy to hear that the head of security is dead. If he goes, then what confidence do we have in our security?” he asked. Others who paid tribute to the minister were Narc Kenya leader Martha Karua and National Assembly Deputy Speaker Joyce Laboso. Mr Nkaissery’s son, Kenneth Mumeita, was also present. However, the minister’s wife, who family spokesman Saitoti ole Maika confirmed had been discharged from hospital, did not attend the prayer service.   Security Minister Joseph Nkaissery is dead.