The contest for the Busia County Woman Representative seat has shaped up into a two-horse race between two candidates of parties affiliated to National Super Alliance (Nasa). The candidates are incumbent Florence Mutua of Orange Democratic Party (ODM) Ms Susan Mange'ni of the Amani National Congress (ANC). Ms Mutua was handed a direct ticket by her ODM party. Other candidates for seat are Ms Pauline Nasirumbi Nangila (Ford Kenya), Isabela Masinde (Jubilee Party), Zilpah Bett (Vision Party of Kenya), Grace Imo (Chama Cha Mashinani) and Ms Aquinata Adungosi of Labour Party of Kenya. Ms Mutua and Ms Mang’eni were allies in 2013 making their political rivalry interesting. DEMOCRACY It followed a loosely negotiated democracy between Luhya's and the Teso where the governorship went to the Teso while majority Luhya took the senate and women's seat. But now, Ms Mang'eni has returned to give the ODM candidate a run for her money. The Woman Rep is defending her seat on the platform of what she terms as "great performance record" in the last four and a half years that she has been in Parliament. "As pioneer women representatives, we spent much time fighting for a kitty. We later received an allocation and together with my team, we have made strides across the county," she says. GOVERNOR In a governorship race between ODM's Sospeter Ojamong' (incumbent) and MP Paul Otuoma who is running as an independent, she finds herself in a Catch-22 situation on who to support. Political analyst Barrack Muluka, while agreeing that the contest in the Woman Rep race has shaped up as between ODM and ANC, says inclination towards a governorship candidate will also play out on who emerges the victor in the race. But Mrs Mutua has opted to go with the party and is in Mr Ojamoong's camp while Ms Mang'eni is supporting Mr Otuoma, who chose to run as an independent upon losing to the incumbent in the ODM nominations. Mr Martin Oloo, another analyst, says party politics will be key on who becomes the victor on August 8 and also notes that track record will play a critical role in the choice for the County MP's seat. TESO VOTE "Florence (Mutua) has an edge because of her loyalty to the party. She has also performed and the rest (opponents) will have to prove they are up to the task. Luhya and Teso politics will not play out," Mr Oloo. However, Mr Muluka notes that the Jubilee Party candidate, Ms Masinde, could eat into the Teso vote citing the presence of Teso South MP Mary Emase and Mr Arthur Odera, the MP for Teso North. "Jubilee factor is not to be dismissed," he says. "Emase (and Odera) have influence among the Teso and was elected through Jubilee, an indication that the Jubilee candidate for the women seat may eat into some Teso votes," he adds. PREGNANCIES Ms Mutua talks of pushing for policies that would reduce cases of school pregnancies. "Busia has a high pregnancy rate. We have ensured that such children go back to school to pursue their education. This has seen 350 girls resume learning prompting us to also start school mentorship programmes to make the girls love education and realise that it is not just a boys' affair, " she says. However, Ms Mang'eni cautions the incumbent to prepare for a bruising battle saying her eyes are glued on the seat. Despite backing Ms Mutua in 2013, Ms Mang'eni, a former director at the Women and Youth Enterprise Fund, says it is her turn to represent the region in the National Assembly. PLEDGES "My election pledges are pegged on talent development, access to higher education, promoting women and youth enterprising, agricultural production, environmental conservation, boosting access to health care and peaceful coexistence," she says of the key issues she will promote in Parliament. In Busia though, the contest between Mang’eni and Mutua is also that of sibling rivalry given that their parties are members of Nasa. Ford Kenya, another of the parties in Nasa has also fielded a candidate, Ms Nangila. She is campaigning on the platform of establishing cottage industries, women empowerment and better education standards. LOST HOPE But Mr Muluka notes that with ODM on one side and Jubilee on another, ANC could carry the day and dismisses the theory that sibling rivalry is a major factor in the race. Ms Masinde, the Jubilee Party candidate, is an environment and climate change expert. She says she is the best placed to restore what she terms as the lost hope of the people living in the border county of Busia. “My leadership,” she says, “will promote Jubilee development policies that have been derailed by the opposition whose leadership has been more of politicking at the expense of development. "I want to promote agribusiness, education among the female folk, make women to become self-reliant and link the residents with the government."  