Whenever I come across all these tales of the military being used to rig the coming elections, my first instinct is a mighty yawn. With the dirty tricks departments of both President Uhuru Kenyatta and Nasa’s Raila Odinga fouling the air with their toxic propaganda and fake news, one is well-advised to ignore much of what comes out of their respective electoral campaigns. HATE SPEECHMr Kenyatta has his slick fake news video productions, purporting to be CNN and BBC broadcasts predicting his victory. The gullible faithful are lapping it up. He also has at his service the Internet and vernacular radio, whose poisonous bile if disseminated by any other candidate would attract whole battalions of angry officials threatening to hang, draw and quarter anyone so brazenly breaking the laws on hate speech election advertising. CRYING WOLFThe web-based propaganda blitzkrieg affords the Jubilee Party campaign a degree of separation in case those pesky meddlers from the International Criminal Court take an interest. Mr Odinga, by contrast, does not conceal his manoeuvres behind the anonymity of the World Wide Web: He personally shouts it out from the rooftops, and the blindly faithful get even more agitated. Perhaps, the veteran opposition campaigner ought to re-read Aesop’s ‘The boy who cried wolf’. RIGGING He has made so much noise about election rigging that one must wonder whether he might be falling into a carefully laid Jubilee trap. If the election is eventually stolen, Mr Odinga will scream and shout, “I told you so!” But Mr Kenyatta will be laughing with his own, “I told you so”, having consistently sold the narrative that the persistent alarm bells were just advance preparations for the eventual rejection of the election results. TRUTHAs a rule, I do not look kindly on politicians who constantly whine or generally engage in unchecked rhetoric that could add fuel to the fire in our already explosive arena of ethnic political duels. Mr Odinga, in many ways, seems guilty of wild and reckless statements that succeed, at least, in drawing angry ripostes from his rivals. It is easy to accuse him of grandstanding and shouting “fire” in crowded places, but what cannot be denied is that even if some of his accusations are exaggerated or unproven, they are grounded on a kernel of truth. KDFNobody has disputed the authenticity of the leaked letters provided to back up the oppositions’ allegations of selected military units being enlisted into the Jubilee election campaign. The official response from the Kenya Defence Forces has been that the details have been misinterpreted or twisted out of context. The rest have been angry political retorts that do not answer the very serious questions raised. Neither President Kenyatta, at his campaign events, nor Defence Cabinet Secretary Raychelle Omamo and acting Internal Security CS Fred Matiang’i, at their press briefing, responded to the actual accusations. LEAKED LETTERSAll they had was political hot air, accusing Mr Odinga of dangerous machinations that could entangle the KDF in politics. However, they seemed not to see that it was Jubilee, in the first place, accused of using the military for political schemes. Most pathetic was Ms Omamo refusing to answer questions on the excuse that she had not read the leaked letters. Then what was she calling a press conference to so stridently deny? MEDIAEven if we were to buy the explanation that the letters referred to legitimate military deployment, surely, we deserve an explanation as to why the officers for the special mission were to be selected only from a special cadre known to be ‘Regime Friendly by Tribe’. Nothing in the military could be more sinister. And it’s all happening at the same time Information and Communications Technology CS Joe Mucheru is threatening to shut down media houses that stray from the straight and narrow official path. RESULTSIt is not in doubt that the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission has the sole mandate to declare the electoral outcomes, but the media have since the demise of the one-party Kanu dictatorship freely announced election result updates as the counting proceeds. Any attempts to roll back the clock and re-introduce draconian curbs on election reporting will be robustly resisted. These Cabinet secretaries supposedly drawn from professional ranks now reducing themselves to empty political megaphones must be put in their place. Email: gaithomail@gmail.com Twitter: @MachariaGaitho  