There’s always a lot of give and take in a good marriage. So successful couples have to learn to compromise. And to be prepared to give up a few things for their partnership. But there are some things that should never be compromised. Like your dreams, for example or your personal rights. So you should always feel emotionally and physically safe with your partner, no matter what. Don’t compromise over any form of abuse no matter how small. You should also have an equal say in everything that affects your relationship. So speak up if it’s clear that you don’t. You must both be equally involved in every important decision, for example. Especially regarding money or property. Everyone has their own unique set of values, and they’re what make you who you are. So you and your partner are bound to have different attitudes towards life - like whether you’re a saver or a spender, for example. But no-one has the right to insist that you change your values to fit in with theirs. Don’t compromise over honesty and openness, because they’re one of the best things about a good marriage. Neither of you should keep secrets from one another, and both of you should feel able to raise any issue without being judged or put down. But you must also have whatever level of personal privacy you need. Like a little private time for yourself, for example. Or to be able to keep a completely personal journal. And your partner has no right to snoop on your phone! You have a right to physical and emotional intimacy. And attention. So speak up straight away if you’re beginning to feel lonely or neglected. You need to spend time with your family and friends. Obviously you mustn’t put them ahead of your partner. But in turn, your partner mustn’t even try to restrict your access to them. So don’t put up with any form of controlling or insecure behaviour. Don’t compromise if you want to have children, and have begun to realise that whoever you’re dating doesn’t like the idea. Make sure you’re both on the same page on this one before you even begin to think about getting married. Do you have things you feel passionate about in life? Maybe it’s your studies. Or your career, hobby, sport, work in the community, or religion? Your partner should support you in all your goals and aspirations. Because once they start asking you to compromise on your passions, then you’ll definitely come to grief sooner or later. In fact, you shouldn’t have to compromise on any aspect of your independence. Because no matter how great it feels being a couple, you mustn’t lose sight of what makes each of you special. It was your different attitudes, ideas and interests that attracted you to one another in the first place. So if you want your relationship to last for ever, you need to stay unique!  nyumbayangu@me.com  