Kakamega Homeboyz laboured to beat a resilient Zetech University side 1-0 in a tough GOtv Shield tournament round of 32 match at the Mumias Sports Complex on Saturday. Francis Nambute s 62nd minute strike was enough to eliminate the students who put up a spirited fight against the SportPesa Premier League side. The encounter started on a high note as strikers from both sides made frantic efforts to snatch the opener. Homeboyz could have found the back of the net as early as in the sixth minute when John Avire put through Moses Matete whose shot was punched over by goal keeper Billy Momanyi for a fruitless corner. Zetech replied on the other end with Clement Abemba and Derrick Abudo combining well but the latter s shot was saved by Homeboyz custodian Aurther Arakaza. The match turned physical as each outfit tried frantically to break the deadlock with Homeboyz midfielder Festo Omukoto booked by referee Agnes Itubo for a tackle on Kamau Mwaniki after 31 minutes.Five minutes later, Itubo again issued a yellow card to Homeboyz Victor Ochieng for what looked like an elbow on Isaac Njau. After the breather, Homeboyz upped their game as they relentlessly raided the goal mouth of their opponents. The visitors thought they had grabbed the lead 10 minutes after the restart after Nahashon Thiongo s pile-driver hit the cross bar before ricocheting into the net but was disallowed.A defensive lapse inside the Zetech area gifted Nambute with the easiest of tasks, with the striker tucking home the ball in the 62nd minute.The students continued with their relentless attacks, with Abemba s pin-point cross headed over the bar by Augustine Mukaisi two minutes from time.Homeboyz coach Mike Mururi said his side is determined to reach the final of the competition. The match was good. The boys showed determination which yielded fruits, he said. Zetech stand-in-coach Alfred Muli down played their defeat. We had many scoring chances which were not converted into goals, he noted. email print email print