There are certain characteristics that are ordinarily associated with the election period. Think about the amount of money that goes into the campaigns, not to mention the sources of such money. How about the hundreds of rallies that are organised around the country by the various candidates? RIVALS In some places there are even instances of violence between supporters of different candidates. One must also mention among other things the amount of lies that are told by some people against their opponents. In some places around the world there is a socio-cultural phenomenon known as the carnival. CARNIVAL SEASON This is a yearly event of celebration in a manner that is not ordinary. During this period there are all manner of behaviour patterns that are permitted only within this season. Almost anything goes. Dress code, masks, strange dancing styles and other things form part of what is considered a successful carnival season. LEGALLY ESTABLISHED Looking at the events and behaviour that surround our electioneering period, it is very much some kind of a carnival every five years. There are things that people — citizens as well as those seeking to be elected — do during electoral campaigns that happen only during this season. One would not be wrong to call it a constitutionally established carnival. IMPORTANT EXERCISE The only difference is that while the ordinary carnival where it is practiced is an opportunity for fun, relaxation and letting go, our type has life changing implications. It is about deciding what kind of a country we want to live in. It is about deciding how we want our lives to be organised in the next five years. SAME 'MONKEYS'My good friend Prof Lumumba reminded us recently that the monkeys that invade the forest of politics are the same ones all along. What changes is the forest. One time there is the forest of this or that other party the next season there is a different party or coalition. The players remain the same and we know all of them. PROGRESS The unfortunate thing is that many of us cling to individual people as opposed to thinking about what their contribution is to the improvement of the lives of fellow Kenyans. We will have succeeded in shaping our political workforce at the level of leadership only when we will concentrate on the proven record of each individual. CONTEMPLATION There are those individuals who cannot show a single project they have been associated with where they come from yet they want to be regarded as national leaders. Our carnival every five years is not a period of fun and letting go. It is a solemn moment when we are given an opportunity to shape our future by identifying those best suited to guide it. Writer is Dean of Students at the University of Nairobi wamugundaw@uonbi.ac.ke  