The electoral commission is set to meet presidential candidates on Monday in a make-or-break consultation on how to pick a firm to print the presidential election ballot papers. At the same time, the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) will appeal a ruling by the High Court that quashed award of the tender for printing of ballots for the presidential election. “The contract for the presidential ballot papers was nullified on the basis of lack of public participation. "This is a grey area affecting not just the commission but all public institutions,” IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati told journalists on Saturday. PARTICIPATIONHe went on: “We will be appealing to get a clarification on the process of engaging the public because there is neither a legislative framework nor policy guidelines in place.” But with the IEBC already engaging the presidential candidates and a plan to receive public memoranda on Tuesday, their bid to appeal the ruling on public participation appears to be a safeguard for future reference. The meeting between the IEBC and the presidential candidates will take place at the Hilton Hotel, Nairobi, at 10am. COMPLIANCEThe commission is expected to hear from President Kenyatta, his main challenger Raila Odinga and six other presidential candidates on how and who should print the ballot papers for presidential elections. “Our position still remains the same: We are not interested in which firm prints the ballot papers. We have been summoned, and we will abide by that,” Jubilee secretary-general Raphael Tuju said. AL-GHURAIR On Friday, a three-judge bench allowed Dubai-based Al-Ghurair to print ballot papers for the five elective seats. The first delivery of the 120 million ballot papers for all the seats is expected to start by July 25, and the last batch on August 2. Al-Ghurair had planned to print the presidential election ballot papers from July 18.   The commission said it will proceed with the appeal of the ruling to get a clear interpretation.