Elders from the Kano clan have endorsed Kisumu Senator Anyang’ Nyong’o for the governorship post, dealing a blow to incumbent Jack Ranguma's re-election bid. Governor Ranguma hails from Kano clan. The Saturday declaration was made by more than 20 members of the Luo Council of Elders from the Kano community in Nyando sub-county. RANGUMA TOLD TO RETIRE Addressing journalists in Kisumu town, chairman Odungi Randa said they made the decision after wide consultation. "We appreciate the role Ranguma has played but we ask him to retire peacefully." "There are several jobs in the government and we hope in Raila Odinga’s government he will be able to serve as an ambassador or a PS (principal secretary)," Mr Randa, accompanied by Rose Ochieng’ and Charles Ondere, said. He went on: "As for us, we will rally our community behind Prof Nyong’o come rain come sun shine because we believe, with his wealth of knowledge, he will be able to improve the status of our county." INDEPENDENT CANDIDATE The endorsement comes barely a week after the Luo Council of Elders chairman Willis Opiyo Otondi told residents to rally behind Nasa presidential candidate Raila Odinga and ODM party candidates. "Let us avoid differences and support Raila Odinga and embrace his six piece call for the sake of his presidency," Mr Otondi said. Mr Ranguma, who is defending his seat on an independent ticket, will face off with Prof Nyong’o of ODM in the August 8 elections. READ: Raila's stand on independent candidates DEVELOPMENT Also in the race is banker David Wayiera (Alternative Leadership Party of Kenya), Peter Omollo (Amani National Congress) and Atieno Otieno (Jubilee Party). Mr Ranguma has however insisted that he deserves another term so that he can complete his development projects. He challenged Prof Nyong’o to tell the people of Kisumu what he had done for them since he became an elected leader. NYONG'O'S RECORD But on Friday, Prof Nyong’o defended himself saying he had initiated several development projects in Seme during his tenure as Kisumu Rural MP. The senator also boasts of improving the infrastructure of various hospitals during his time as Minister for Medical Services. Mr Ondere said Prof Nyong’o was instrumental in the elevation of the New Nyanza Provincial hospital to a referral status and named the Jaramogi Oginga Odinga Teaching and Referral hospital.  