A few mornings ago, right in the middle of a business meeting, the man I was meeting asked me if I am married. I took offense because I thought he was one of those people who think a woman is not complete unless she has a man in her life. Turned out that he isn’t one of these people. So why was he asking? Apparently, he believes that my relationship status has a bearing on the kind of business partner I make. “If you are married, it means you are stable,” he told me. I disagree. I think that while it is true that my private life can affect my professional life, the two parts of my life do not automatically feed off each other. How well I am doing in one is not an indicator of how I will do in the other. When we make this assumption, we end up judging people on the basis of their romantic relationships and subsequently denying them things that they have earned. Let us start seeing marriage and long-term relationships for the things they are and not those they aren’t. First of all, marriage is not a source of happiness. Whether you are happy or not is the sum total of the little decisions you make in everyday life, including your decision to stay in or leave a relationship, and not because of your relationship. Do not think that you can make just one decision to get married and get eternal happiness from it. That is being lazy. The truth is that even the happiness you will get from marriage, you will need to work for. Second, marriage or being in a relationship is not an indicator of stability, whether emotional or financial. There are millions of miserable married people, and people in relationships who are so unhappy that you wouldn’t take their place even if you were paid to. There are also many emotionally unstable people in long-term relationships. In fact, there are relationships that are driven by this very instability – men and women who remain in long-term relationships because they are so unstable and insecure that they believe that they can’t be by themselves. On the flip side, there are single people who are genuinely happy and grounded. Let’s stop judging people by their relationship status. If you meet a good woman who is assertive, trustworthy and hardworking, do not hesitate to go into business with her just because she is 35 and single and therefore there must be something wrong with her. And if you are in a long-term relationship, do not let it define you. You are many things before you are a wife or girlfriend, and your relationship status isn’t just something you decide by yourself; your significant other must also decide to be in a relationship with you. Why then do you want to base your whole existence on something that you do not have total control over?  