I logged into my social media accounts the other day and saw that an acquaintance of mine was holidaying in the Maldives with his wife, who just turned 45. There was a picture of her lying on the deck of what looked like a boat and him seated next to her with a beer in hand. I inboxed him and said, Boss, yaani you can travel all the way to the Maldives to wear such horrible shorts? You have to stop buying clothes in bars after midnight. He wrote back and said, Haha. What are you talking about? These are Hilfigers. I said, Well, check again if it has one l or a double l . I asked him how he could afford to go to the Maldives; what business did he get into that we don t know about? He vaguely quoted Martin Luther King or somebody else dead and added that, Bringing her here has earned me about three gunias of brownie points. I will reap them slowly for the next year. Ha. Good luck.Well, you and I know that s how it should be, but it s not always how it works. You can sell your arm and take your woman to the moon, and she will be super excited about it and say how happy she is and how grateful she is, and you guys will come back from the moon and the following day she will have forgotten everything you did and revert to treating you like you are a cad. No good deed goes rewarded but all bad deeds are repeatedly shouted from the very top of the hills. I don t get it.Here are other things I absolutely don t get about women.YOUR FOODHuman beings should eat what they like, not what they think is good for them. If you feel like eating a goat, eat a goat. You can have it roasted or you can have it deep-fried. Now, you go a restaurant and you order your goat and she orders her sandwich because goat is red meat and red meat is bad for her arteries and veins. But when your goat comes to the table she eats half of it. It s something that really gets one s goat.YOUR FEMALE FRIEND I don t like her, she says with a sniffle. You say, But you barely know her. Actually you don t know her. She says indignantly, I don t have to know her, I can just tell she is not a good person. You snigger and say, Your friend Paul is not a good person either, he steals from the government. She says, That s not the same. You are like, How is it not the same? It speaks into one s integrity, doesn t it? She is quiet for a minute. Anyway, I have expressed my opinion, I don t like her, she is very fishy but if you want to cling to that friendship it s OK. You sigh and ponder on her misuse of the word cling. LET S LEAVE IT AT THAT. When a woman says those words you can be sure that that matter has not been left, much less at that. And it s always a convenient way to walk away from a discussion they are losing. Does it kill one to just say, I was wrong ?SHORT THINGSWhen she wears a very short dress and she asks you, Do you think this is too short? If she has to ask, then it s too short. Generally, I m from the school of thought that there is no such thing as too short , unless you have really terrible legs with big knees. Otherwise the shorter, the better. But nothing makes me frustrated than when you see a woman sitting down with a jacket across her legs, covering her thighs because she wore something short. It s a tragedy, to be honest. If you are confident enough to wear a short dress, be confident enough to sit in it.So, back to my acquaintance in the Maldives; I can see him coming back and falling into a sin like coming back home late, and his wife saying, I feel so unappreciated, and him saying, Are you kidding me, we just got back from Maldives! And her saying, You don t get it, do you? This is not about what you did! He will scratch his head and go, So what is this about? And she will say, You know what, it s okay. Let s leave it at that. email print email print How you handle your upset partner is directly related to what sort of anger she manifests.