Q: I have been married for several years. My husband and I do not agree whenever we discuss politics; we are on opposing sides. Whenever we talk about it we end up shouting and almost fighting. These days I notice that we are disagreeing on almost everything and this is making us distant. I see our marriage falling apart. What do I do? Please help. A: Political differences between spouses are bound to exist, given that you each have your own influences and history through which you view the world. So it is likely that your personal convictions may be his contentions. The extent to which both of you are able to respectfully debate sensitive issues such as politics may depend on the strength of your overall communication, because this is a fundamental indicator of relationship success. Unfortunately, your marriage has little or no room for good communication, and that is why you feel that your marriage looks doomed. If you and your husband suffer sharp disagreements whenever you discuss politics, this could be a pointer to other problems in your union, which you need to handle before a major fallout. Why do you disagree on all issues? More likely because there are deeper communication issues in your marriage, and not necessarily because of your different political stands. The moment your relationship takes a turn toward disrespect, criticism or belittling, whether triggered by politics or other differences, it may be time to see a marriage therapist. Now, coming back to your political differences; you may both consider emphasizing your commitments your their respective political values and finally agree to respectfully disagree and establish an unspoken strategy of topic avoidance. In case you decide to discuss politics, beware that pressing the point about how right you are is only going to damage the relationship. This may lead to your husband feeling hurt, and treated unfairly. This means you both needs to practice active listening. Consider this; your husband is someone who adds happiness to your life, makes your world a better place and you a better person, and whom you cannot imagine living without. With all that in mind, political differences may be trivial. Would you trade the love of your husband for politics? Wishing you the best. email print email print