Welcome to the greatest team in these parts of the world Mister Dylan Kerr. As fate would have it, your surname Kerr means king in the Dholuo, the language of the majority of your new club s supporters. Meaning, you are already highly elevated.However, I must warn you this elevation comes with a price. A steep price.As you might already be aware, we are tough customers- we demand nothing short of victory. You are coming to a club with rich tradition. A club that prides itself in winning all its matches. A team that has a passionate fan base.We are an army. We are called the Green Army. If you deliver you will be given treatment that even the president cannot get in this country. We will adore you plus your family and cats and dogs if you have any.Your first assignment, good sir, is to beat your countrymen going by the name of Everton this coming Thursday. Thank God you are coming to Gor Mahia just when we have this huge game coming up. I wish you would decide to travel by road and see what we call the travelling fans.These are men and women who will sacrifice anything for the club they love.They travel. They sing. They dance. All in the name of K Ogalo. And they expect nothing short of a win in Tanzania.So my good man, you have your work cut out for you and we will back you to the hilt.I have seen your impressive CV and I see that you have just been with Chesterfield FC Academy as the head coach, and that you are a former professional footballer who played as a defender for known clubs like Sheffield Wednesday, Leeds, Doncaster and Burnley amongst others.I have also read that you have 13 years coaching experience, starting your career in the United States with Phoenix - Arizona before you went to Scotland as a Football Development Officer at Argyll and Bute in 2005. It is good news that you have some coaching experience in Africa seeing as it is that you have been an assistant manager of South African club Mpumalanga Black Aces. It is indeed fortuitous that we are taking you to Tanzania for your first assignment, a country you have worked in as the coach of Simba SC. My experience supporting Gor Mahia is that we have good times with British coaches.Starting from the man I hold to be the best coach Gor ever had , the highly temperamental and clinical Len Juliens to Frank Nuttal, Bwana Kerr you have this huge responsibility to deliver. And you must deliver. email print email print