The electoral commission has fined a candidate for the Makadara parliamentary seat Sh250,000 for using Jubilee Party colours and images of President Uhuru Kenyatta in his campaign materials. Robert Momanyi, flying the Empowerment and Liberation Party flag, was asked to pay the fine in 48 hours and remove all materials bearing images of President Kenyatta as well as those with Jubilee Party colours or risk disqualification from the race. OBADO A petitioner identified as Fredrick Hussein had argued that Mr Momanyi's actions had prejudiced Jubilee Party candidate Benson Kangara. Meanwhile, Migori Governor Okoth Obado accused his rival running on an independent ticket, Ochillo Ayacko, of allowing his supporters to mete out violence on his supporters. “Please help tell my opponent to tell his supporters to stop harassing, beating and intimidating my supporters,” Governor Obado told the IEBC. “He is not only defacing and tearing my posters, he is also superimposing his on top of mine.” PROOF He went on: “He is using ODM party colours despite being an independent candidate. His supporters have on some occasions undressed women wearing my T-shirts and made them walk home bare chested.” But in his defence, Mr Ayacko dismissed as fabricated the evidence against him, saying he had no banner with ODM colours, and that he was, indeed, the victim of violence and not the perpetrator. “How is a humble Ochillo who lives in Awendo responsible for violence in Suna East?” asked Mr Ayacko, who lost the ODM nominations and is now running as an independent. Elsewhere, Meru Woman Representative Florence Kajuju wants Baite TV barred from broadcasting anything concerning her until after the election. BAITE TV Ms Kajuju argues that Jubilee Party candidate Kawira Mwangaza, who she said was associated with the TV station, was using it to discredit her campaign. “Ms Mwangaza has close and deep associations with Baite TV and indeed the broadcasting house of the media house is the same place [where] the respondent lives with her husband, who is the lead broadcaster,” said lawyer Kibe Mungai for Ms Kajuju. But Ms Mwangaza, through her lawyers, argued that she is not a director nor a shareholder in the TV station and therefore could not be blamed for its activities.  