Nasa Presidential candidate Raila Odinga on Wednesday returned to the South Rift region with a promise to hand goodies to locals if they elect him next month. At a rally in Bomet, the home turf of Nasa co-principal, Governor Isaac Ruto, Mr Odinga accused his rivals in Jubilee Party of offering empty promises to Kenyans even as the economy collapses under their watch. “This government is exploiting people in broad daylight. You look around and businesses are closing down. People are losing jobs. They have offered Kenyans empty promises,” he said. According to the Nasa leader, the Jubilee government had failed to protect farmers in the region from exploitation, citing milk producers who have had to sell their products at throw-away prices only for processors to sell the same exorbitantly. CORRECT ALL MISTAKES He told a crowd at Ndanai Trading Centre that he will “correct all mistakes” committed by President Uhuru Kenyatta’s administration if elected next month. “When I was Minister for Roads, I noticed the Sotik-Ndanai Road was to go all the way to Awendo in Migori County. READ: Demos rock Itare Dam works But it has stopped under the Jubilee government. It is saddening that people were not compensated,” the former Prime Minister said at Ndanai trading centre. “We will also help improve  tea and livestock farming,” said Mr Odinga, who was accompanied by Mr Ruto. Mr Ruto said the roads being put up by the Jubilee government do not meet standards. GREAT SERVICE Earlier, the two leaders had sat side-by-side with Jubilee leaders in Kericho County during the burial of former Provincial Commissioner Isaiah Cheluget. The Jubilee leaders included Kericho Governor Paul Chepkwony and Mr Ruto’s Bomet rival and Deputy Speaker of the National Assembly Joyce Laboso. Mr Cheluget was also former chairman of the Kipsigis Council of Elders, which last year controversially invited Mr Odinga to raise alarm over the construction of a Sh38 billion dam in Itare. Mr Odinga described Mr Cheluget as a dedicated and hard working civil servant, who was known across the country for his great service. ENVIRONMENTAL EFFECTS He also described him as a friend. “His death was a shocker to us. He died just 24 hours after we had our last conversation,” said the Nasa leader.   Mr Odinga said he opposed the dam’s construction because the council of elders had told him of the possible environmental effects to the local community. He said experts had warned that the dam would affect flow of water in the neighbouring counties of Kisumu, Bomet and Nakuru, among others. READ: Uhuru criticises Raila over Itare water project “Nobody wants to oppose a project that will benefit Kenyans. But if it will harm others, you have to reconsider it,” he told a gathering at the funeral. OPPOSING PROJECT “We realised its construction would affect other parts of the country. When I came to talk about the dam, I did not come to politick, but, I did so on the invitation of the Kipsigis Council of Elders,” added the Nasa leader. Mr Odinga had come under criticism from the Jubilee administration and some politicians from the region for opposing the project. They accused him of seeking political mileage. The project, which is funded by the Italian Government, is part of the national water master plan and is expected to serve 800,000 people in Kuresoi, Molo, Njoro, Rongai and Nakuru towns. Reporting by Anita Chepkoech, Geoffrey Rono and Silas Apollo   President promises to address land issue and offset loans borrowed by farmers from AFC.