An Administration Police officer has narrated how bandits ambushed them at Kamwenje in Maituki, Laikipia West, on Wednesday evening, killing six officers and injuring four others. The victims were in a group of officers from the Anti-Stock Theft Unit (ASTU) who were patrolling the Laikipia Nature Conservancy on the Baringo-Laikipia boundary. SAFETY According to the officer, who requested not to be named, they were ambushed by more than 100 men at around 5.40pm. He said the attackers started shooting, forcing the officers to scamper for safety. “We managed to take cover but, unfortunately, some of our colleagues were killed,” he told the Nation Thursday. KILLEDHe said the shootout lasted about 40 minutes before the bandits disappeared into the bush. Among those killed was Mr Thomas Thurkan, Anti-Stock Theft Unit (ASTU) deputy commandant based in Gilgil, and Senior Superintendent of Police Bernard Wambugu. Others are Police Inspector Daniel Nzamba and police constables Meshack Langat, Emmanuel Kaigu and Kennedy Changwony. TREATMENTAccording to Nyahururu OCPD Ezekiel Chepkwony, the bandits stole five G3 rifles, one AK-47 rifle and one Jericho pistol. They also stole ammunition from the slain officers before fleeing. The injured officers were airlifted to Nairobi for treatment. RAIDERSAccording to a police report, a convoy of two ASTU vehicles heading towards Kamwenje police post on a familiarisation tour was attacked while taking a sharp corner. “The second vehicle retreated and officers on board engaged the raiders, who fled back to the ranch,” the report indicated. “The area was combed but the raiders had escaped towards the conservancy. The bodies were taken to Nyahururu Hospital mortuary,” the report added. MANHUNTMr Chepkwony said that security agencies had launched a manhunt for the bandits, adding that security has been beefed up in the area following the attack. Laikipia Police Commander Simon Kipkeu said: “The government is not going to rest until those behind the killing of our officers are found.”  