The Committee to Protect Journalists (CPJ) has asked the Confederation of African Football (Caf) join calls on the Cameroonian government to release all journalists detained for their work in the country. CPJ, which is an independent non-profit organisation dedicated to preserving press freedom, wants Caf to demand that the Cameroonian government ceases censoring and harassing the media ahead of the African Cup of Nations, scheduled to begin on January 12, 2019 in the West African state. CPJ said Cameroon's appalling press freedom record and its continued use of military courts to try journalists on terrorism charges are a far cry from the vision of an "Africa of good governance, democracy, and respect for human rights, justice, and the rule of law" which the African Union, Caf, and other partners support in their Agenda 2063. “The Africa Cup of Nations will likely attract journalists and media coverage from around the world. Given Cameroon's continued disregard for press freedom, for a wide array of human rights, and for accountability for crimes against journalists, we are concerned that visiting journalists will not be able to report freely from Cameroon. Their Cameroonian colleagues already cannot,” said CPJ in letter to Caf President Ahmad Ahmad on Friday. “International sporting bodies such as the International Olympic Committee are adopting human-rights assessments as part of the process by which countries bid to host events. They are implementing press freedom monitoring mechanisms. We urge the Caf to consider a similar course.” The organisation urged Caf to keep tournaments away from “repressive governments” for their violation of human rights. Cameroon's treatment of the press has steadily deteriorated since December 2016, notably with the targeting of Anglophone media and the use of anti-terrorism legislation to silence critics or those who report news the government does not wish to see reported. Radio France Internationale journalist Ahmed Abba, jailed since 2015, and was sentenced in April by a military court to 10 years in prison for his work. At least six other journalists remain behind bars in the country awaiting trial by military courts on terrorism charges. This is an open letter to Caf from the Committee to Protect Journalists  