The doctors have finally signed their contentious pay deal with the county governments, and whose import is to improve their earnings and working conditions in a substantial way. Last week, the doctors also inked a similar pact with the Ministry of Health, which continues to employ a number of them. In the current structure, doctors are employed by the national and county governments, as well as the two main referral hospitals — Kenyatta National Hospital in Nairobi and Moi Referral and Teaching Hospital in Eldoret. STALEMATE Any labour deal must, therefore, be okayed by all the various employers, itself a problem brought about by devolution of health management. It has been a long walk to signing the collective bargaining agreement (CBA). The CBA negotiations between the Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists’ Union (KMPDU) and the government dates back to 2013, and although the parties agreed on several items, disputes persisted over some provisions, creating a stalemate. LONG STRIKE Out of the frustration from the long wait, the doctors went on strike at the end of last year, which lasted more than three months. The impact was grave. Many lives were lost, patients agonised as pain and grief confounded the nation with the public health facilities closed. The signing of the CBA, therefore, marks an important chapter in the health sector. It confirms the desire to stabilise health care systems. RENEGE ON DEAL But its significance will only be realised in implementation. Quite often, we have witnessed cases where workers sign labour agreements with the government only for the deals to be disowned and thrown out. Teachers provide a good example of this. The ongoing strike by university lecturers is another. We urge goodwill and honesty in implementing the CBA. NURSES The government must honour its pledge. But the deal cuts both ways. Doctors have also made commitments, which they must deliver. However, we must not lose sight of the fact that the health sector is still in a big crisis as nurses are out on strike over their own pay dispute. This must be resolved quickly to guarantee stability in the health sector.  