Mandera Governor Ali Roba has told politicians aligned to Jubilee friendly parties to keep off President Uhuru Kenyatta’s meetings terming them a Jubilee Party affair. President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto are expected to address rallies in Mandera and Wajir counties today. DISRUPT Mr Roba, who is seeking re-election on a Jubilee ticket, is facing opposition from Economic Freedom Party (EFP), which he wants to keep off the meetings. "We will be hosting the President and his Deputy William Ruto as Jubilee but we are aware of EFP’s plan to attend the rally. I dare them to come,” Mr Roba said.   NOMINATIONS “We are the government and no one can interfere with a government function like tomorrow’s (Saturday) rally. "My opponents should have come out and fought us at the party nominations so that they can show their support for the president,” Mr Roba said. READ: Northern counties strategise to boost bargaining power WATERIt remains unclear if EFP leaders will be attending the rally as phone calls to the officials went unanswered. While in Takaba, President Uhuru is expected to launch Darwed borehole. HUDUMA CENTRE Money for tarmacking of Takaba-Moyale road on the western section of the vast county could also be on his list of goodies to be dished out. Later, Mr Kenyatta will hold a rally in Mandera East, the county headquarters, where he will be expected to launch a Huduma Centre. SECURITY President is also expected to spell out his government’s plan on improving security in Mandera East, Lafey and Mandera South sub-counties. On Wednesday, the government moved swiftly to bridge a wedge brought about after a grave was discovered, which was occupied by bodies of people suspected to be victims of anti-terrorism operations led by security officers.   GRAVE A delegation led by Trade Cabinet Secretary Adan Mohamed and North Eastern Regional Coordinator Mohamud Saleh gave out Sh2.5 million to families of five people buried in the shallow grave that was discovered on July 4. “We have received Sh500,000 each from government as compensation, which means our relatives were killed by the state. We have forgiven them,” a relative of one of the deceased said. READ: 5 bodies found in shallow grave - VIDEO NASA SUPPORT In Wajir, the Jubilee leaders are expected to address a rally in Wajir town and Habaswein. During the last visit to the county, the party leaders received hostile reception from a section of the residents who chanted pro-opposition slogans. TJRC Among the issues Mr Kenyatta is expected to address is the implementation of the Truth Justice and Reconciliation Commission (TJRC) report, which the opposition Nasa has exploited to assail the ruling government. READ: The bitter truth of the TJRC report ODM In the 2013 elections majority of the voters in the region supported ODM, which is led by Raila Odinga - the Nasa presidential candidate. The governor, the woman representative and five members of Parliament in the six sub-counties were elected under the Orange Democratic Movement party - with only one MP elected under URP. However, this might change after several leaders defected to Jubilee Party.   On Sunday, Ipsos is expected to release an opinion poll on the presidential election.