More women leaders are gunning for governorship in next month’s polls, seeking to claim slots in the Council of Governors that remained a men’s only club in the last four years. Nine women will be on the ballot on August 8, a slight increase over the six who contested in the 2013 elections. But there are strong indications that Kenyans, who failed to elect a single one of them as governor, would this time around hand the governor’s seat to a number of these women. KIRINYAGA CONTESTIn 2013, Kenyans also refused to elect a woman senator even as 17 contested for the county seat. The number of men who vied for governorship has gone down from 230 in 2013 to 201 in this year’s elections. In the race for the top county seat, it is widely expected that Kirinyaga would produce a woman county boss, given that the race has shaped up as a battle between the two formidable former cabinet ministers, Anne Waiguru of Jubilee Party and Martha Karua of Narc Kenya. Stakes are so high in the Kirinyaga race that President Uhuru Kenyatta, Jubilee Party’s flagbearer, has sought to be neutral in his support of either of the candidates and has asked voters to choose between his party’s candidate and former Devolution Cabinet Secretary in his Administration, Ms Waiguru, and Ms Karua, the Narc Kenya party leader and a former powerful minister in the Kibaki government. STAKES HIGH The other two candidates in Kirinyaga include incumbent Joseph Ndathi and Muriithi Kaga, who are running as independents.   JOYCE LABOSO In Bomet, National Assembly Deputy Speaker and Sotik MP Joyce Laboso is in a tight race for the county’s governorship with incumbent Isaac Ruto, the Chama Cha Mashinani (CCM) party leader and a principal in the opposition coalition National Super Alliance (Nasa). Dr Laboso weathered the battle in the Jubilee primaries, defeating former MP Dr Julius Kones after garnering 115,289 votes. Dr Kones got 72,546 votes while deputy governor Stephen Mtai managed 8,895 votes. A former Egerton University lecturer and second term MP, Dr Laboso says she is ready for another round of what promises to be an equally tough race with Mr Ruto, a bitter critic of the Jubilee administration, saying she is sure of a win.   CHARITY NGILU In Kitui County, another former Cabinet Secretary in President Kenyatta’s administration and veteran politician Ms Charity Ngilu is eying the governorship, and is in a heated race against Senator David Musila and incumbent Governor Julius Malombe. Ms Ngilu who has also served as the Kitui Central MP and as a minister in the Mwai Kibaki administration seeks to unseat Dr Malombe, on her Narc party ticket. The race for Kitui governorship is a tight one.   WAVINYA NDETI The Machakos County governorship race also promises to produce fireworks, as a former assistant minister, also former Kathiani MP Wavinya Ndeti seeks to unseat Dr Alfred Mutua. Ms Ndeti has had to battle a number of court cases and other hurdles in her bid to unseat Dr Mutua.   JACINTA MWATELA In Taita Taveta County, former Central Bank deputy governor Jacinta Mwatela is back in the race after narrowly losing to the incumbent Governor John Mruttu. The assertive Mrs Mwatela is running within the Nasa coalition on an Amani National Congress (ANC) ticket and is in a field of seven men among them Mr Mruttu who is running as an independent candidate, the county’s Senator Dan Mwanzo of Jubilee Party and Wudanyi MP Thomas Mwadeghu of ODM. The others are independents, former PS Emmanuel Kisombe, and Erastus Karani, journalist Granton Samboja of Wiper and Maendeleo Chap Chap’s Constantine Mwadime.   WINNIE KABURU In Meru, Ms Winnie Kaburu of Wiper party is the only woman in a heated race pitting Jubilee Party’s Senator Kiraitu Murungi and incumbent Governor Peter Munya, of Party of National Unity (PNU). During the 2013 general election, Ms Kaburu was the running mate of presidential candidate Prof James ole Kiyiapi of Restore and Build Kenya Party.   MABEL MURULI In Kakamega County, Ms Mabel Muruli will be making a second go at the governorship. She is pitted against two bitter rivals, incumbent Governor Wycliffe Oparanya and Senator Boni Khalwale of Ford-Kenya. Ms Muruli is the Jubilee Party candidate for the seat.   ATIENO OTIENO In Kisumu County, Ms Atieno Otieno, a women rights campaigner and the local Maendeleo ya Wanawake chairperson, will be contesting against incumbent Governor Jack Ranguma who is running as an independent, and ODM candidate Senator Anyang’ Nyong’o. Ms Otieno is the Jubilee party candidate.    