When I was 14 I cooked ugali for my mother but I didn t cook it well, says Dr Rachel Diang a. My mum knew I would grow up to become an academic because I used to excel in school, but she reproached me for the ugali and told me that even if I went to all the schools and got all the degrees, I would be nothing if I couldn t cook ugali for my family. That was the last day I cooked bad ugali. Dr Diang a chuckles. She has a PhD degree in film studies, thus her title. She is a lecturer at Kenyatta University. At 38, she has been married 15 years and has three sons. She married a year after her undergraduate graduation, and had her last two sons while pursuing her second and third degrees. And she takes pride in being a submissive wife, which her mother inspired her to be. My mother was a housewife and businesswoman, she says. She inspired me to do things in the home well, not to be half a woman. Dr Diang a is not the typical submissive wife'. I am a modern wife, in the sense that I am educated, travelled, opinionated and exposed. But I don t neglect my wifely and motherly roles. I actually became more submissive after getting my PhD. Education made me wiser. I wouldn t say that most of what I do for my husband is traditional. But modern isn t the opposite of traditional. Patricia Murugami could be defined as the submission teacher. She runs Brides for Life, Wives for Life, which teaches wives and brides to harness feminine power, be self-aware and build intimacy with their partners.Patricia Murugami (founder of Brides for Life, Wives for Life ): "Submission is not a traditional concept but a timeless one". PHOTO| FILE| NATION MEDIA GROUP Submission is not easy for the 21st century wife, she says. There s so much material and ideas that counter the idea of submission. Yet submission is not a traditional concept but a timeless one. Submission is about emotional intelligence, humility and moderating the tone and timing of your tongue. THE POWER WOMEN WHO ARE ALSO SUBMISSIVE WIVESSo how, exactly, does Dr Diang a define her role vis a vis her husband s? She pauses to ponder. I think of my husband as a chairman and me as the organising secretary. I run the show at home and call all the shots. I am his helper not his doormat. The helper is stronger than the head thus my position as a submissive wife. You would only go for help from someone who is stronger than you are. Patience, tenderness, slow to anger and peace keeping are all feminine traits. "My husband has shown my sons what it means to respect a woman who serves you."About the specific roles she performs at home, Dr Diang a says, I cook for my family every evening after getting home from work, and I serve my husband his food. I always have. I still clean my house; my house help is only there to assist me. Most of my helps usually get offended by this, she laughs, but it s a challenge I have accepted. Besides, which of those relationships matters more the one with my husband or the one with my house help?" Being submissive has brought harmony and order to my home, Dr Diang a continues. It makes my husband feel important without me losing myself. Being submissive has given me access to my husband s heart and pocket; he takes great care of me and he trusts me. That attracts more submission. My husband has shown my sons what it means to respect a woman who serves you. They may not find wives like me who love to cook, so I teach them to work around the house and kitchen. I ask Dr Diang a about washing her husband s, uhm, dirty laundry. She chortles. Let me tell you a story: I gave birth to my second son in the back seat of our car, on our way to Aga Khan Hospital. It was 9pm and we knew there wouldn t be any traffic. But we were held up somewhere along the way. I delivered right there in the back seat of his car. She pauses to look away for a moment. All the blood and all the other things were over the seat. My husband said he couldn t take the car to the car wash so he washed it himself. It took him three days. Dr Diang a gives me a half smile. He did that for me. So what more can I ask of him? What can t I do for him? Dr Rachel Diang a says being submissive has brought harmony and order to my home. PHOTO| FILE |NATION MEDIA GROUPFor Patricia Murugami, submission is not about compromising one s principles or letting one s husband abuse you. Submission is about detaching yourself from your own opinions, and using your feminine genius to access a situation in its entirety, asking yourself, What truly matters here?" Maybe I should surrender my will because this is more important to him than it is to me? "..being submissive isn t about being a weak woman. It s really about acknowledging the natural laws of nature"Lilian Mukabane might not cook her family dinner every night or do the washing and cleaning around the house but she is as submissive as she has learned to be. Lilian is the chief operating officer of a local mobitech company. She s 31 and has been married for five years. She has two daughters. For me, it has never been a question whether to be submissive to my husband or not, Lilian says emphatically. Being submissive is my given, it s a personal conviction. It isn t a secondary response to my husband s actions. I do it because I love to. Lilian looks away for a moment. Submission is like wearing different hats when I m at work, I m the boss; I m forthright and aggressive. When I m home my role is as a wife and mother, roles which calm me and make me all-rounded. Career makes me more masculine. Being subservient makes me more feminine. Lilian exhales as she sifts through her thoughts. The modern woman fears submission because she imagines it s a chance for her man to walk over her, to quash her ambitions and ideas and opinions. The 21st century was all about women empowerment. The modern woman felt that if she wasn t strong then men would take advantage of her. Lilian shakes her head in disagreement. But being submissive isn t about being a weak woman. It s really about acknowledging the natural laws of nature. There are roles predisposed to men and women: I m naturally better at cooking and he at fixing cars. There s no day I ll become better at fixing cars. And trying to prove that I can is just vain. What informs your personal principles? I ask. I saw it from my home with my mum; she was a traditional woman but very strong and independent. She raised us that way. I learned from her that there were privileges for my father because he was the man of the house. For example, he had to eat first. I m also a Christian, and that greatly dictates my understanding of marriage. What about the woman who chooses not to be submissive? It s sad because she ll miss out on a lot of fruits of marriage. There s a degree of love and intimacy a man will show you when you are submissive; he s happier and there s a softness that comes to him. Then she adds carefully, A wife who doesn t submit needs to search herself to find out what s driving that insecurity. There s something advising her resistance, something she s trying to protect herself from, and it dictates her fears and rules over her marriage. It could be that the relationship is based on lust not love. Murugami agrees. A wife who doesn t submit is not taken care of by her husband, and a wife who is not taken care of is miserable in her marriage. Submission is one of the keys to a successful marriage. She continues, A wife loses nothing by being submissive. When she submits in the right way, her husband will respect her, honour her and seek her opinion. He too will submit to her, and they ll enjoy a connected and friendly marriage. Hannah Ndarwa-Karuri is 38 and the head of legal and human resource at a credit and information society. She s been married seven years and has two boys.Hannah underscores that a man who sees you submit and serve will, in turn, happily and readily take up his roles in the marriage. He ll also help you with yours when you are unable to.Hannah Ndarwa-Karuri says her husband rarely eats out and often complements her cooking. PHOTO| FILE|NATION MEDIA GROUPHannah says, I always pick my boys from school in the evening. I bathe them then my husband plays with them while I cook dinner. The house help chops and preps but I always do the cooking. My husband rarely eats out and often tells me he loves my cooking. It motivates me. She adds, I clean our bedroom three times a week dusting the surfaces, organising it and wiping the floor thoroughly. My husband has seen me do this since we had our first born. When I am not around to do it because I ve travelled or busy with church bazaars he ll clean the bedroom himself without me asking him to. email print email print You ve heard it all regarding domestic violence, and how to protect yourself from it. This week the Saturday Magazine talks to Dr Kizzie Shako, a forensics officer who examines victims of violence, to give us her view on what she has learnt in her years of examinations.