Last Saturday was the second week in a row that chama members were inviting me for a meeting. For reasons only known to them they had suddenly become active after almost four months of minimal activity. As you already know, chama is a women s only welfare group of which I am the only male member. I am invited to meetings to provide expert advice whenever sex issues are being discussed.A week earlier they had asked me to talk about the role of breasts in sex. Basically they wanted to know if breast stimulation leads to orgasm. I came to this next meeting expecting another sexually charged topic but as fate would have it, I was not allowed to speak. Instead chama members asked me to listen to their demands. How our men behave in the bedroom is very important for us and we want you to go tell it on the mountains, over the hills and everywhere, so that no man can say that they lacked this information, said the chairperson. Members clapped and cheered her on.Members said that the frequency of sex in their marriages had been waning and they feared that their marriages would soon be sexless. This, they said, was recipe for divorce. Our men always wonder why we are not interested in having sex with them; we shy off from talking about these issues but we think you are best placed to put this word out there for them to read so as to reduce these conflicts, said another member.Chama members told me that most men go to bed sweaty and smelling pungent. It is torture sharing a bed with a man in such a state. Then they get to loud snoring, and you have a smelly, roaring man beside you. God forbid if they also have a bad tummy and are passing gas.What chama members were asking for is for men to take action over the things they can control. A bath or shower before going to bed is not too much. How about applying some pleasant smelling lotion or body spray before bed? Body odour was killing intimacy for them.Then there was the whole issue of oral hygiene. According to chama members, most men have bad breath. They do not brush before bed. The situation is made worse when one is a smoker. Worse still, alcohol can lead to real bad breath. And you know what? When they are at their worst is when they want to kiss you, lamented a member, and they really get offended if you refuse their nauseating kiss! To avoid unnecessary conflict, chama members said while they go ahead and share these kisses, they kill their sexual urge rather than turning them on. Chama members demanded that men improve on their oral hygiene by at the very least brushing their teeth before bed.Then there was the issue of pubic hair. Members had graphic descriptions of how bushy men can be down there. They feared that men would soon be infested with lice. Further, they complained that the unkempt hair bruised and cut them during sex. To tell you the truth, we feel that these men do not care about us because even after you get a bruise or a cut and complain, they just ignore you and keep their ugly bushes intact, said a member.As I sat there being lectured by one chama member after another, it occurred to me that it is the small things in life that either enhance or kill intimacy. If not attended to, these issues become mountains and disrupt relationships.As ordered by the chairperson of the chama, I have broadcast this over the mountains the hills and everywhere, and therefore I am safe from the wrath of chama members. email print email print