The Office of the Director of Public Prosecution has ordered for an immediate probe into Friday's incident in which a six-year-old kindergarten boy was crushed to death by a school bus he was riding in. The pupil from St Augustine’s Preparatory School in Mombasa was ran over by the back wheels of the bus when he fell down through an opening on the floor of the bus. In a letter, Senior Assistant Director of Public Prosecution Alexander Muteti directed the Mombasa County Criminal Investigations Officer to appoint a senior officer to lead investigations into the 6.30am incident and bring all those responsible for the senseless loss of life to book.   “This is not a matter that should be approached purely from a traffic accident angle and therefore the need to have a seasoned detective to deal with the same,” the letter read. The letter indicated that two other prosecutors will assist the investigation team to ensure that the matter is concluded without delays. It further indicated that the school bus should be impounded, inspected and photographed including the inner part where the opening on the floor is said to be. “The safety of school going children is a matter of great public interest and calls for immediate and thorough investigations into the matter to unearth the circumstances leading to the unfortunate incident,” the letter read. The ODPP’s directive comes after the National Transport Authority (NTSA) said that the administrators of the school will have to be charged in court since preliminary investigations had revealed that the bus had corroded floor plate covered with a carpet. “This points to the fact that the school knowingly concealed this defect in the vehicle,” read the statement from NTSA. It also said: “St Augustine's Preparatory School Administration shall be charged for knowing that parts of the vehicle were not maintained hence endangered lives of person travelling with it contrary to the law.”   Parents say the Mombasa school bus was bought in 1995.