Kenya have made one change to the squad that blew away Tunisia for their African Rugby Gold Cup clash against Senegal at Rugby Football Union of East Africa grounds, on Saturday. Impala Saracens lock Simon Muniafu is back after missing Tunisia game through a concussion he suffered against Uganda in the opening Gold Cup match.Muniafu, 21, will partner with Captain Wilson K Opondo from Kenya Harlequin in the second row. George Nyambua from Kabras Sugar drops to the bench.After putting up a man-of-the-match performance against Tunisia, Leo Seje from Impala Saracens retains his place at inside centre. He will partner David Ambunya from Kenya Harlequins in midfield.Speaking after naming the squad in Nairobi Thursday, coach Jerome Paarwater said they would approach the Senegal game differently. Some of the areas we are going to improve on is our defence and kick-offs, he said.FOUND RIGHT MIXHe said he had found the right mix between youth and experience.After demolishing Tunisia 100-10, Kenyans are expecting another big win against rugby minnows Senegal.However, the Kenyan camp is cautious. We don t want to promise a big win because Senegal is a different team. Our target is just to get a win, said KCB flanker Davis Chenge.Team manager Wangila Simiyu said Simbas are ready to roar again and asked fans to turn up in large numbers to give them support just as they did against Tunisia. We want to give Kenyans something to smile about - a win, said Simiyu, who was on the technical bench when Kenya hit Senegal 22-7 in an African Cup fixture in 2009, the only time these two sides have met. SQUADBacks 15. Tony Onyango, 14. Darwin Mukidza, 13. David Ambunya, 12. Leo Seje, 11. Jacob Ojee, 10. Isaac Adimo, 9. Samson Onsomu; 1. Moses Amusala, 2. Peter Karia, 3. Dennis Karani, 4. Wilson K Opondo, 5. Simon Muniafu, 6. Eric Kerre, 7. Davis Chenge, 8. Joshua Chisanga. Replacements 16. Philip Ikambili, 17. Oscar Simiyu, 18. Curtis Lilako, 19. George Nyambua, 20. Martin Owila, 21. Lyle Asiligwa, 22. Kenny Andola, 23. Dennis Muhanji.Management Jerome Paarwater (Head Coach), Dominique Habimana (Forwards Coach), Charles Ngovi (Backs Coach), Richard Ochieng (Strength and Conditioning Coach), Christopher Makachia (Physiotherapist) and Wangila Simiyu (Team Manager). email print email print Simbas led 46-10 at the break.