Nasa leaders have criticised the dusk-to-dawn curfew imposed by the newly appointed acting Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i in Lamu, Tana River and Garissa counties. The curfew was imposed following a series of attacks by terrorists, the latest being on Friday at Jima village, Lamu, where at least nine people were killed. SHABAAB But Nasa co-principals Musalia Mudavadi, Moses Wetang’ula, Siaya Senator James Orengo and his Kilifi counterpart Stewart Madzayo said imposing a curfew is not a solution in the fight against the Al-Shabaab. Speaking at Gongoni in Magarini, Kilifi County, during a campaign rally to drum up support for Nasa presidential candidate Raila Odinga, the leaders questioned Dr Matiangi’s decision to impose the curfew, saying it would affect voter turn-out during the August 8 General Election. “We wonder why Matiang’i rushed to the decision instead of mourning Interior Cabinet Secretary Joseph Nkaissery,” Mr Wetang’ula said. KDF SOLDIERS He added that he expected Dr Matiang’i to pay tribute to his departed colleague instead of “making impromptu decisions on matters of national security”. “The only solution to the Al-Shabaab attacks and insecurity at large is to withdraw KDF from Somalia so they can fight the enemy from within not outside,” Mr Wetang’ula added. The Nasa leaders, who also sent messages of condolence to Maj-Gen (rtd) Nkaissery’s family, asked President Kenyatta to ensure thorough investigations are done to unearth the cause of the sudden death. ELECTIONS Mr Mudavadi said the insecurity being witnessed will affect voter turn-out, particularly in areas named as hot spots. He called on the Jubilee government to ensure there is maximum security so that people can cast their votes in peace. The Nasa leaders, who also took their campaign to Jubilee Party pointman Gideon Mung’aro’s turf in Watamu, told the President to respect the Constitution and stop intimidating the Judiciary. LAND ISSUES On Sunday, the President warned the Judiciary against frustrating IEBC, saying he would not accept the postponement of August 8 elections. Mr Orengo said nobody is above the law, including the President. Mr Odinga accused the Jubilee administration of failing to address land problems at the Coast. Speaking in Mtwapa, he said Jubilee leaders could not resolve the land problems as they were part of the problem. INFLATIONPresident Kenyatta’s administration, he said, had failed to look into historical injustices and implement the Truth, Justice and Reconciliation Commission report. “Uhuru brings title deeds instead of addressing the historical injustices. The implementation of the TJRC report is the solution. Nasa has the solution but Jubilee are part of the problem and cannot be the solution,” he said. Mr Odinga, who was accompanied by his running mate Kalonzo Musyoka, also decried the rising cost of living. INTIMIDATIONAt the same time, Nasa leaders have claimed the Jubilee government is planning to use security agencies to stop Kilifi residents from voting for the opposition in the August 8 polls. Addressing a rally at Water Services ground, Mr Musyoka said the leaders are aware of the plan, but asked residents not to be intimidated. “In 2013 you did not vote because police were used to create fear and engineered insecurity. "This time round, we are warning the police to be neutral. We know there is a plan by Jubilee to introduce insecurity so that you don’t vote again,” he claimed. RIGGINGHe said voting for Nasa was voting for the much needed change. Mr Odinga asked the youths to guard ballots after voting. Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho blamed regional coordinator Nelson Marwa for declaring Kilifi County, among areas, be marked as hot spots for violence. “I want Marwa to know that we are peaceful people,” he said.  