Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero has recounted what he and the late Interior Cabinet Secretary Joseph Nkaissery shared on Friday during the national prayer service at Uhuru Park. Pictures of the two high-fiving went viral. The photo depicted that, away from the limelight, they were good friends; and coincidentally, they sat next to one another and occasionally chatted. HEALTHY Speaking to Nation, Dr Kidero said he is still in shock about the Rtd Maj Gen's death, whom, he said, was in good shape and did not show a sign of illness. "Yesterday (Friday) we were together at the evangelical Alliance of Kenya prayer meeting for peace for the coming election. "He was in his jovial and energetic [self]...I received the news with a lot of sadness. Our condolences to the family," Dr Kidero said. SECURITY MATTERSDr Kidero said that the CS and his wife would always go for a morning run. On the whispers they shared during the rally, the governor said they discussed about security issues and also about peaceful August 8 elections. "We were talking about the coming election and how peaceful [it] would be, and the countrywide prayers that would ensure there is no violence during the election." LAND ISSUESHe described him as a principled and passionate patriot who loved his Maa community. Dr Kidero said that he had known him since the days he was in the army in the early 2000s and have been close since then, especially when it came to fighting for the Maa community's land issues. He added that they had been finalising the compensation of the Maasai community living on the border of Machakos and Nairobi, who had been affected by the construction of the standard gauge railway. CRIME RATEDr Kidero said the CS brought sanity in the security docket, especially in Nairobi where crime rate has reduced. "You saw the difference between him and the gentleman who was there before him [Joseph ole Lenku]. ".....he was fair and stood firm on his decision and was practical and did what needed to be done in a timely manner."   Security Minister Joseph Nkaissery is dead.