The principle of separation of powers is well articulated in the Constitution. All the three arms of government — the Executive, Legislature and Judiciary — operate independently and understandably, collaboratively, in the discharge of their respective mandates. BALLOT TENDER Under this doctrine, the institutions must respect one another and wherever they disagree, find judicious ways of resolving this. So, it was out of character for President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy, Mr William Ruto, to tear into the Judiciary at a public rally at the weekend over last Friday’s court cancellation of a tender for printing presidential ballot papers. More unsettling was the contention that the Judiciary was working in cahoots with the opposition to scuttle the August 8 elections and casting aspersions on the integrity of Chief Justice David Maraga. Such attacks smack of high-handedness. INDEPENDENCE Since, the Jubilee brigade has descended on the Judiciary, making wild and even personal claims about individual judges; all intended to besmirch the institution and intimidate the officials into acquiescence. A key pillar of the Constitution is the creation of strong and independent institutions. Underpinning this is the understanding that good governance rests on autonomous bodies. AL-GHURAIR Under the previous dispensation, the political establishment strangled all institutions. We had an imperial presidency that rod roughshod over everything. The Judiciary was an appendage of the Executive; and judicial officers looked over their shoulders before making rulings. The decision to revoke the contract awarded to a Dubai-based firm was founded on legal and not political principles. APPEAL If the President’s camp felt aggrieved, as indeed the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission did, they have recourse in higher courts. It is inconceivable that the President, who swore to protect the Constitution, is the one leading the assault on the Judiciary. We made a decision as a country to empower institutions and cannot accept a situation where one arm of the government seeks to intimidate another. This gang-like bashing of the Judiciary must stop.  