Kenya’s elections are usually a high-stakes game. They are a ‘do-or-die’ type of competition in which those involved leave nothing to chance. The August 8 election indeed has attracted unprecedented interest if the number of candidates and the intense campaigns are anything to go by. CAMPAIGNS This has also raised emotions and reinforced ethnic, clan and regional divisions as is usual every election year. But there is a new observation emerging from the campaigns: the behaviour of voters has changed. Voters are now demanding bribes from candidates. BRIBE The voters are the ones demanding that the candidates give them “something small” if they want to be listened to. I have drawn this conclusion from my encounter with voters in different parts of the country during the campaign period. My first experience was in South Rift. Driving along the busy streets one evening, my colleague and I stopped by the roadside to ask for directions to one popular restaurant. MONEY The moment we stopped, a group of boda boda riders rushed to our car shouting “Tuko hapa Mheshimiwa (Honourable. We are here). We were driving a big car. To them, all politicians vying for various elective seats drive big cars. One of us must then have been a candidate and we may have stopped to ask for their support. They expected us to give them what they called “something small’ meaning some money. POLITICIANSThey told us that many politicians stop by to give them “something”. Our big car fitted the description of those who give out money. We entertained the thought of behaving like a “Mheshimiwa”. I almost pretended to be one but dropped because the numbers of those surrounding the car continued to grow. VOTERS' NEEDS When we told them we are looking for a direction to a particular restaurant, some insisted that we were candidates and that they were keen to support us. They did not seem to care about what seat we were contesting. We left. They were very disappointed. This experience convinced us that the riders had a better understanding of their politicians. They come in big cars during elections to give money rather than spell out their plans as leaders. These voters did not also bother to spell out their interests. They were only concerned about “something small”. TRADERSI had a similar experience in Central and Eastern Kenya a week later. In one instance, again a colleague and I stopped in a local market centre to meet some of our researchers. It was a chilly morning and a majority of those next to where we parked were women selling a variety of farm produce. Before we could step out of the car, several of them were on us selling this and that. MOBILISER Although we explained that we were on a different mission, one young lady quickly pointed out that we should state what seats we were vying for. We looked like candidates. She said she can mobilise a group of people for me quite fast if I wanted to speak to potential voters, and youth in particular. Of course this would to be done at a fee. My conversation with her amidst the jostling by others revealed that they usually demand that those vying for elective seats leave “something small”. FEEI understood that “something small” comprises many things. In some instances, they demand transport to a meeting venue. They demand “listening fee” or the amount they need to stay at an impromptu meeting. Those who have taken up positions of informal leaders of these groups demand something extra. They demand “air time” or compensation for mobilising small crowds in market centres. COMPROMISEThis trend is common in several other counties. Wherever you look and wherever you are, voters behave in the same manner. They are demanding cash from aspirants at the county level. While it is too early to tell whether the voters will finally cast their votes to those who have given the most, one can tell with certainty that the voters are demanding bribes because they are disillusioned with leaders. SELF-INTEREST Many point out that the leaders get to office to satisfy their self-interests. The voters understand that the leaders they elect only “mind their own business” once they win the election. To the voters, it is quite rational to get “something small” at the time of the election because this is the only connection they have with politicians. After the elections, the leaders will disappear. COMMON INTEREST They will be busy using their elective offices to get more money for their own use. The voters are therefore engaging in a rational behaviour: to get as much as they can. What this implies is that the voters and leaders will have nothing to connect them between this election and the next. The demands that the voters have placed on the leaders in the form of getting “something small” has compromised their ability to demand that the leaders provide public goods. TRIBE The leaders who will win for having given more cash to voters will certainly not feel obliged to do anything much to them. They will have bought their way to office. A second observation to make is that the tribal thoughts around which presidential election and general competition revolve has found its way to the local level. The divisions along tribal lines that characterise national politics have spilled over to lower elections. CLANS Villages and clans are fighting each other on account of elections. This year’s ballot paper for both the parliamentary and ward level seats will have the longest list of candidates. In some wards, every village has produced a candidate to contest for the Member of the County Assembly or even the Member of Parliament. In other constituencies, clans have produced candidates to run for parliamentary seats even when they know their numbers are insignificant to enable their candidate to win. FARMERS Sub-ethnic groups are doing the same – they are outcompeting one another using the local elective seats. In one particular constituency, I noted that tea farmers have different demands from those who grow cereal crops. The tea farmers are more worried about feeder roads and declining earnings. The cereal farmers (maize) are worried about lack of subsidies. Both have decided to support different candidates. Incidentally, both type of farmers represent different clans and therefore the candidates are mobilising on clan basis. UNITYAll these points to one thing. Our elections are dividing rather than unifying the society. The election is turning to be a danger to national development rather than a means of solutions for the challenges we face. The next Parliament will be weak; so will be the county assemblies The third observation is that the next Parliament and the county governments will be very weak institutions. PARTY NOMINATIONS Some of the leaders likely to win at this level were selected through a flawed party primary process. In some counties, the nominations produced candidates who lack integrity. Some of them won the party primaries through laughable methods. There are those who manipulated the nomination processes. INTEGRITY There are those whom the party leadership favoured and decided to give direct tickets. There are those who bribed party officials to manipulate tabulation of primary votes. The Senate, National Assembly and the second generation of the county governments, which will constitute after the elections, will disillusion many voters yet it is these same voters who participated in electing these officials. ACCOUNTABILITY Some of the leaders who will win because of being in the strongholds of their party will not bother to account to the voters. They will have bought their way to these positions. They will have no obligation to reason with the voters. In other areas, leaders will have bought their way to Parliament and will care less about the needs of the voters. Again, the voters are largely responsible for having such leaders in power. NATIONAL DIALOGUE These observations raise the need for Kenya to have a conversation with itself. More than ever before, there is a need for a conversation on the ‘Kenya we Want’. We have a Constitution that has chapters on values and principles to govern ourselves. These have been shelved. We all acknowledge there is a need to build a strong foundation for nationhood. This acknowledgement again is taken for granted. GOVERNANCEWhoever wins the election has a responsibility to convene a national dialogue on the Kenya we want. Whoever wins has a responsibility to convene a dialogue on what went wrong, what should be done, and how to move the nation forward as one people with a commitment to a better society. We need a candid discussion on the lack of integrity and our failure to commit to the national values and principles of good governance. We need a candid discussion on why the ordinary wanainchi behave badly and expect their leaders to behave differently. Prof Kanyinga is based at the Institute for Development Studies (IDS), University of Nairobi; karutik@gmail.com  