The great thing about Lion Hill in Nakuru, as with many lodges, is that you can go for game drives as well. Buffaloes, dik-diks and warthogs are just a few of the wild animals you are bound to see at close range if that is your thing. When we arrived after about two hours of driving from Nairobi, some of us went to check out the cosy rooms while others went to do just that. The rooms usually hold two single beds or one double bed, charmingly canopied by a curtain and mosquito net to keep pesky critters at bay. Fortunately for me, there weren t any larger creatures than that I don t do very well with creepy crawlies! Entrance to dining area and bar at Lion Hill. PHOTO| ABIGAIL ARUNGATHE MEALS Meals are usually done buffet style and extras are covered by the individual room bills, which you can sign off in the dining area and then pay off at the end of your stay. They have regular special cocktails, such as the Perfect Serve, which was a whiskey cocktail with bitters and ginger ale. The Perfect Serve - their cocktail special this month. PHOTO| ABIGAIL ARUNGAThere is also a gift shop with lovely Afro-inspired pieces, in case you forgot either toothpaste (it still stumps me why this isn t standard in hotels everywhere) or the gift for the person you are with during the celebration of their birthday, hypothetically speaking of course! More green to stretch your legs in. PHOTO| ABIGAIL ARUNGAFAVOURITE PLACE My favourite part of the lodge, other than the breath-taking scenery, mini-waterfall next to the dining area and the fluffy duvets, was the bar right next to the main dining area. I love that you can see all the greenery from one place, watch the birds and have a drink as you watch the sunset go down on the lake. Lunch is served! PHOTO| ABIGAIL ARUNGA It s all a bit archaically simple, but you know what they say about oldies being goodies, right? The simple life is always a good experience. *** Things you have to remember: Carry your ID or some sort of identification. Sarova Lion Hill is located inside a park, and so you have to prove that you are Kenyan (or otherwise) when entering. I think it s a great thing that their security is so tight. Depending on what time of the year you go, you may as well carry a swimsuit. They have a lovely pool area, which you can sit beside as you watch friends and family relax. Again, depending on what time of the year you go, you may want to carry extra warm clothing. June was warm enough for a swim, but last year November was a veritable lesson in how much I cannot survive outside of the tropics! If you like birds and are into birdwatching, carry binoculars. There are beautiful bird species that frequent the lodge, and even assemble for feeding time at a designated area. email print email print