The government has closed two top city establishments indefinitely in the wake of a cholera outbreak. Health Cabinet Secretary Cleopa Mailu on Wednesday announced that Jacaranda hotel and San Valencia restaurant in Nairobi had been shut indefinitely. The two are said to have offered catering services at events attended by participants who were later hospitalised after developing cholera-related symptoms. The minister said the establishments will not be allowed to operate until their staff are certified to be free of cholera. WATER He further said 12 counties have been affected by the outbreak, with Nairobi and Garissa the worst hit. He said 67 people have been admitted to Kenyatta National Hospital (KNH), 12 others are in health facilities in the city and four deaths have been reported so far. He said all water bowsers and vendors would be inspected and water sources checked to prevent the spread of cholera. The CS was speaking after visiting cholera patients at KNH. He was accompanied by Health Principal Secretary Julius Korir and Director of Medical Services Jackson Kioko. "We've also asked that the county repairs all broken sewers as well as monitor the sources of the water being brought into the city," said Dr Mailu. BEDS He said the ministry will also set up six health centres in the affected areas, including Mukuru kwa Njenga, Mukuru kwa Reuben, Mathare, Kibera, Kawangware and Mbagathi. Dr Mailu donated 20 beds to KNH to boost its capacity to admit cholera patients as cases of the disease rise. On July 14, top government officers, including National Treasury Cabinet Secretary Henry Rotich, his Trade colleague Adan Mohammed and Trade Principal Secretary Chris Kiptoo and several staff from the two ministries were treated for cholera-related symptoms. TASK FORCE They fell ill after eating food at a trade event at Kenyatta International Convention Centre. In an effort to contain the spread of the disease, the ministry of Health cancelled the medical certificates of all food handlers as it directed county health units to inspect all eateries in 21 days. A task force to stop the spread of the disease was also appointed. Dr Mailu announced that on Wednesday.   Two more die of the disease as at least 50 admitted at Kenyatta National Hospital.