A Sh200 billion special economic zone was on Friday launched in Uasin Gishu County with a promise to create more than 40,000 jobs. The Africa Economic Zone Pearl River is located in Plateau, Kesses sub-county, and is the first to be established under the Special Economic Zones Act, 2015. The zone is spearheaded by a Chinese company, the Guangdong New South Group, in partnership with a local firm, Africa Economic Zone (AEZ). INVESTMENTDeputy President William Ruto represented President Uhuru Kenyatta who had been slated to preside over the ground breaking ceremony. Mr Ruto praised the project as one of the key investments brought about by a law developed by the Jubilee administration. “This investment will help to improve the returns of farmers and create jobs for our youth. This is how we are going to deal with poverty and unemployment,” he said. SABA SABAThe DP also said it was important for Kenyans to mark Saba Saba Day with the launch of mega projects like the special zone, adding that it would show the country had moved on from its past challenges. “It is important to remind ourselves not to celebrate violence, disunity and things that take us backward. "It is significant that we use this Saba Saba to show the future generations that the challenges our country faces can be sorted out,” he said. ZONE CREATORWith 30 days to the General Election, he asked fellow politicians not to create tension and anxiety among their supporters, saying the days of dishonouring the democratic will of voters were long gone. He said the Jubilee Party would accept the will of the people. The Africa Economic Zone is the brainchild of DL Group Companies chairman David Lagat. TECH HUB On Friday, Mr Lagat said it had taken three years for him to convince the Chinese to spearhead the investments. The project will be undertaken in three phases and is expected to be one of Africa’s tech hub offering employment and propelling economic growth and development of Uasin Gishu County and the country at large. In the first phase of the project dubbed AEZ Pearl River, the Chinese firm will supervise the construction of an industrial park that will cover 700 acres. INDUSTRIAL PARKIt will consist of various industries in agro-processing, energy, machinery, engineering, construction, electronic, ICT, chemical and pharmaceutical sectors.The second phase will consist of a science and technology hub on an 86-acre piece of land. “This is going to be one of the most transformational projects in Kenya’s history,” Industrialisation Cabinet Secretary Aden Mohammed said.   Mr Odinga said Jubilee was promoting ethnicity through its policies.