Fighting corruption is a populist promise that leaders in power or those seeking it use to woo voters but it has not yielded much result even as the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission begins its third decade since the first anti-corruption agency was established in 1997. Both Jubilee and Nasa claim in their manifestos that they have found the bullet to finally slay and bury the dragon that has caused so much misery to the rich and poor citizens alike. This is supposed to be sweet news to a gullible electorate, who will on August 8 choose the leaders they can trust to stop the plunder of public resources. THEIR BELIEF The litmus test for President Uhuru Kenyatta and Orange Democratic Movement presidential candidate Raila Odinga is how much they believe in eradicating graft, what they are doing about it and whether they can be trusted to deliver on their promises. The manifestos admit the difficulties Kenya has experienced and prescribe ways of fixing the broken chain in the fight against corruption. What is different is their approaches, with Nasa focusing on keeping public officials in check through written codes of conduct and performance contracts. Jubilee’s agenda is to continue sealing the loopholes by fixing the failures of anti-corruption systems and institutions. The choice is between the Nasa way of having public officials hold themselves accountable by signing paper work declaring their financial interest and promising to avoid conflict of interest or Jubilee expanding public service delivery digital platforms for procurement and payments, enhancing the capacity of the Judiciary to expedite the disposal of economic crimes and reviewing taxation framework to improve predictability and transparency. MANY REPORTS The United Nations Convention against Corruption and Transparency International have published volumes of reports on how to tackle the global problem. The UN toolkit covers preventive measures, law enforcement, international cooperation, asset recovery, technical assistance and information exchange. Evidence from many countries shows that fighting corruption is a more serious practical undertaking than an academic exercise. Take the declaration of wealth senior public officials are required to submit to their employers under the Public Officer Ethics Act 2003. It has failed to prevent corruption and abuse of office. A study in 20 European countries published by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development in 2011 reported that while asset declaration by public officials is a powerful tool to prevent and combat corruption, it is fraught with challenges, including administrative burdens and costs. The integrity of the declarations is also suspect. The OECD report, ‘Asset Declarations for Public Officials: A Tool to Prevent Corruption’, cites “multiple deficiencies”. They include officials hiding their assets under relatives or other persons. Fighting graft through systems and institutional reforms seems to make greater sense, especially the use of innovative technology. The World Bank and OECD identify the use of technology in public procurement and payment systems as a prevention tool. Jubilee’s promise to expand the digital public procurement and payments platforms is a more practical approach. ASSESS EFFECTIVENESS Since the manifestos will be implemented after the elections, the 19 million eligible voters won’t have the luxury of assessing the effectiveness of the promised actions. Still, they can make an informed choice on how to rate Nasa and Jubilee on their promise to end corruption. The written word is a good benchmark, but more important is how the leaders, President Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto, and Mr Odinga, with his running mate, Mr Kalonzo Musyoka, and the other three Nasa rabble-rousers (Mr Musalia Mudavadi, Mr Isaac Ruto and Mr Moses Wetang’ula) conduct themselves in public. The past few weeks have been particularly entertaining with Jubilee and Nasa leaders accusing one another of hosting and being funded by tenderpreneurs and the grand masters of corruption cartels.  Peter Warutere is a director of Mashariki Communications. ptwarutere@gmail.com  