Today, perhaps more than ever before, I wonder what binds Kenyans together. What makes being a citizen of this country so special is the power we have, especially this crucial time, the power to elect a leader -- a thought leader, a courageous, inspired and servant leader. According to top American business author Paul B. Thornton, effective leaders believe that individuals, organisations, and even nations possess undiscovered talents and untapped resources. TYPES OF LEADERS They seek to unleash the full potential of their followers, so they can reach higher and go farther than they previously thought possible. He describes four type of leaders: thought leaders harness the power of ideas to actualise change. They stretch their followers by helping them to envision new possibilities. Courageous leaders pursue a vision in the face of considerable opposition and risks. They have strong convictions about their mission (purpose), vision (long-term goals), and values (right and wrong). CALL TO ACTION They speak up for their core beliefs and fight for their values, even when their stand is unpopular. Inspirational leaders promote change by the power of their passionate commitment to ideas and ideals. They lift our eyes from present practicalities to future possibilities. Their words stir up our spirits, strengthen our convictions, and move us to action. We are eager to follow them because they call forth the best in us. PRESIDENT And last, servant leaders care deeply about people. They seek to remove the barriers and obstacles that hold others back from achieving their full potential. They strive to create an environment where their followers can do their best work. Servant leaders frequently ask, “How can I help?” If you ask me, our next leader needs to speak truthfully to the Kenyan people, be faithful, steadfast and determined to take us to the next level. Someone who doesn’t profit from the misery of others, and instead has a true passion for change. ACCOUNTABILITY We need a President who will welcome ideas to change the story of traffic, hunger, corruption, inflation, food prices, and inequalities. One well-informed about domestic and foreign policies. Last year, top conferences such as Ticad and Unctad took the country to a high level. We need a leader who will hold accountable people entrusted with public responsibilities. Hold accountable people who put project money in their own pockets and leave us in the dark. We need a problem-solver, whose passion is making things work, a unifier of Kenyans. CRUCIAL ISSUES With many beautiful ethnic groups, show them it’s not about who is, but about dealing with challenges facing us. Quality of public education, better health care, security, which all are our rights as citizens. During the primaries we said we were tired of people saying that poverty is for the lazy people. When a corrupt leader grabs my land, or property how that is being lazy? We need leaders who will respect and serve with dignity the people who gave them that power. WORKERS STRIKESThe President should be a role model for youth. We want a leader who will take our country to the next level. Farmers need a leader who supports them and who understand the importance of trade. Doctors and teachers want a leader who understands that we cannot keep on going on strike because our health and children are put in danger. TRUE LEADERDo we care? Let not Sh100 bribe define your fate in the next five or 10 years. Let not Sh100 ruin your entire five or 10 years. Former US First Lady Michelle Obama once said that when someone is cruel or acts like a bully, we do not stoop to their level; they go low we go high. When we go to the polls on August 8, it should not be about Jubilee or Nasa. It should be about electing a true leader. Ms King’ori is a social commentator. arolkingori1@gmail.com  