Seven security services will form rings around electoral hotspots, ready for deployment in the event of violence. Inspector-General of Police Joseph Boinnet on Wednesday held a meeting with commanders of the agencies in Nairobi which agreed on plans that would ensure the units worked smoothly when deployed together. He said officers from the agencies were under instructions to remain apolitical. “We will be non-partisan and serve the people of this country equally, regardless of political persuasion. We shall also operate in strict conformity with the law,” said Mr Boinnet. MILITARY ON STANDBY Besides Kenya Police, Administration Police and the Directorate of Criminal Investigations – which fall under the IG’s command – officers from the other agencies will also take instructions from the police chief. They are Kenya Wildlife Service, Kenya Prisons Service, Kenya Forest Service and the National Youth Service. The military will also be on standby should the situation deteriorate. Units of Kenya Defence Forces and the police have in recent weeks been training together in crisis response techniques. Mr Boinnet, without revealing details of the plan, said it will be reviewed regularly, according to the changing circumstances. MEETING REGULARLY “Until August 8, we shall be meeting regularly to check on our plans and communicate to Kenyans on security. I can assure the country that the police and other security agencies are prepared for the elections,” he said. The police boss added that officers had been instructed to arrest inciters and those who break electoral laws. “We should also avoid sensational reporting because it can lead to public disorder,” said Mr Boinnet. STATE OF PREPAREDNESS “Having reviewed the state of preparedness to cover the remaining segment of the electioneering period, I have strong reasons to believe our officers have done well.” The country’s top police officer also addressed a claim by Siaya Senator James Orengo, who on Tuesday said eight security agents were trailing National Super Alliance presidential flagbearer Raila Odinga. READ: Tension building in Nairobi slums ahead of polls - VIDEO “We provide security to all candidates. The former Prime Minister still enjoys the protection of our officers. We will deal with any threats to his life,” he said. Mr Boinnet said officers were working with the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission, the Judiciary and civil organisations, including religious institutions, to ensure Kenyans are safe. HOTSPOTS Nairobi County Police Commander Japheth Koome said all slums had already been marked as hotspots. Mr Koome’s list was long but he named 10 areas where violence was likely to occur. They are Ziwani, Landhies Road, Globe Cinema Roundabout, Dandora, Makadara, Mowlem, Savannah, Mukuru, Sinai, Umoja and all slums. Mr Koome said the number of officers will be increased in the areas. He spoke during a meeting of divisional commanders in the city.   Cohesion team accuses politicians of inciting Kenyans, urges State agencies to act fast.