National Super Alliance (Nasa) flagbearer Raila Odinga has accused the Jubilee administration of failing to address land problems at the Coast. Speaking during Nasa’s second day tour of the Coast in Mtwapa, Kilifi County on Sunday, Mr Odinga said Jubilee leaders could not resolve the land problems as they were part of it. President Uhuru Kenyatta’s administration, he said, had further failed to look into historical injustices and implement the Truth, Justice and Reconciliation Commission (TJRC) report. “Uhuru Kenyatta brings title deeds instead of addressing the historical injustices. The implementation of the TJRC report is the solution. Nasa has the solution but Jubilee are part of the problem and cannot be the solution," he said. Mr Odinga who was accompanied by his running mate Kalonzo Musyoka also decried the rising cost of living. FOUNDING FATHERS “Life is very expensive. Prices of maize flour, rice, fuel, bus fare are too high. Nasa will lower the costs,” he said. He added: "Nasa has the vision to fulfil the dream of our founding fathers as contained in our national anthem." He said a Nasa administration would improve Mombasa port, build other ports in Kisumu, Lamu and other places, he said. He accused Jubilee administration of taking pride in the Standard Gauge Railway yet it was initiated by the Grand Coalition government and went ahead to inflate the project’s cost. "The fathers who impregnated the woman are Raila, Kibaki and Kalonzo. They can't claim the child is theirs," he said in relation to the SGR project. NASA CANDIDATES Mr Musyoka said a Nasa will increase allocation to counties from 15 per cent to 45 per cent. He rallied locals to back the re-election of Governor Amason Kingi. "Vote for Amason Kingi because Kazungu Kambi and Gideon Mung"aro are both Jubilee candidates," he said. Mr Mung’aro who is the Kilifi North MP defected from ODM to Jubilee and is vying for the gubernatorial seat. Mr Kingi, a former Labour Cabinet Secretary is flying the Kadu-Asili flag. NATIONAL DEBT Mr Musyoka decried the increased public debt under the Jubilee leadership. “Every baby born has a Sh69, 000 debt. Nasa will renegotiate the country's debt,” he said. He asked Nasa supporters to guard their votes on August 8. He called for a 99 per cent voter turnout in coast saying the 65 per cent turn out in 2013 was too low. Mombasa governor Hassan Joho and Mr Kingi said Jubilee has no backing in Kilifi. CIVIL SERVANTS "They slept for four years only to wake up now,” said Governor Kingi. Mr Joho said he had suffered a lot under the government through regional coordinator Nelson Marwa and police. "I want to tell the police and county commissioners that they are not Jubilee's agents but servants of all Kenyans," he said. The Nasa team started their campaign in the Coast on Saturday by holding a number of rallies in Kwale County urging locals to vote for them on August 8.   Competition between Mbele Iko Sawa and UhuRuto Express has caused division in Jubilee Party.