Where are you and where will you be when history begins to list the third liberators of Kenya? We are the homeland of legendary freedom fighter Kimathi wa Waciuri (Dedan Kimathi), leader of the Mau Mau. Our paths are tied to Thomas Joseph Mboya, a man who taught us that there is no superman and that it is up to each of us to change our country. The story of our journey began with iconic heroines like Mnyazi wa Menza (Mekatilili wa Menza), the woman who led the Giriama in a rebellion against the British colonial administration. We are the children of Prof Wangari Maathai, who reminded us that it is the little things that citizens do that change their country and that her little thing was planting trees. What is yours? I ask again: where are you and where will you be when small iconic acts of courage are being documented for our generation? Last week, the entire country witnessed the essence of leadership when an unknown young man called Eliud Kariara stood alone on a podium and bestowed honour on many of us young people. He was not playing the politically correct discourse, neither was he intimidated by everything else that has always stood against the youth like age, experience, resources and an “affluent” last name when it comes to politics. He spoke and spoke well about the change that is coming. I am deeply proud. JEALOUS SIBLINGS There is a saying that goes “believe not what they say but what they do”. What all other candidates for the position of deputy president did by not honouring the debate showed all of us who they are. First of all, to the Jubilee Party and the National Super Alliance, I am so glad you did not show up because many of us have been struggling to prove you are nothing but two jealous siblings competing for your own interests. Thank you for affirming our belief by making us realise we were not insane for seeing you for who you are. In case you did not know, the debate was about the Kenyan voter and that each of you thought that showing up was for your rival’s pleasure is a big loss for you. And then one of you had the audacity to send a representative. I can not emphasise how insolent this was. How dare you send someone to be interviewed for a job you are applying for? Then again, why am I appalled when this entire time, leaders have been running away from anything and everything that sheds light on who they really are: incompetent boorish thugs. At some point I was tickled at how obvious it was that politicians prefer to dance on roadshows than engage their electorate; they would rather buy votes because earning them is not up their alley. READ: Nasa and Jubilee clash over planned presidential debate READ: This man Eliud Muthiora Kariara READ: Why Raila Odinga attended presidential debate By you not showing up, I understood that none of you deserves my vote. You had no respect for 90 minutes of my time yet you unashamedly want five years of my time. Are you kidding me? You disregarded the resources implored to make the debate happen, you spat on our issues and you literally told us “Mtado?” in bold capital fonts. The smaller unknown candidates also somehow thought it prudent to submerge themselves in this egoism battle of old politicians and cared less about showing up. Honestly, I laughed at each and every one of you. You had almost five broadcasting media stations to exhibit why despite your lack of this and that you were deserving of leading us and you failed. This was a launching pad for all of you who struggle with publicity and reaching Kenyans in corners of this country, which we all know you can not afford to go to and you failed. You decided to play preference with home guards whose clout still shadows you as if you do not know what is at stake and what you are up against. BEYOND DISAPPOINTING It was beyond disappointing to see that most of you new candidates who claim to want to change this country have started playing these superiority games so early. That being said, many of us interested in the leadership of Kenya are very clear about what we are seeking. We are not afraid of invoking the “Fagia wote” slogan because we are sure there are enough new people to select. You may assume it is a fraction of us who think like this but kindly refer to this year’s party nominations in which people fell; they will continue falling come August. There is a whole battalion of young eligible candidates whose names are on ballots this year. My people, do not feel you are obligated to vote for a home guard. So many of the candidates are youthful, qualified and courageous. They are doing what many do not understand to be revolutionary and because of its complex nature is labelled madness. Well, this is the “madness” that made a young man dominate an entire debate while opponents were busy negotiating their ranks. There are wins to be claimed in August and voters are at the helm of it. Walk boldly into the voting booth remembering that power is always yours you only get to lease it to someone. Give time and priority to those leaders who have given you time and priority because without you, there is no them. You are king.  Scheaffer Okore is the vice chairperson of Ukweli Party and program officer for civic engagement at Siasa Place. Twitter: @scheafferoo  