The National Super Alliance brigade on Saturday took their vote hunting mission to Bomet County, the heart of South Rift, where they launched a scathing attack against President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto. Led by flag-bearer Raila Odinga, his running mate Kalonzo Musyoka, other co-principals Isaac Ruto, Senator Moses Wetang'ula and Mr Musalia Mudavadi, they reminded the Jubilee leaders that they only have 38 days to ship out of State House. During the rally held at Bomet green stadium, which was attended by thousands of residents, Bomet Governor Isaac Ruto was installed as the Kipsigis spokesman by the Kipsigis Clan Association members. GOOD LEADERSHIP The Nasa leaders said the installation of Mr Ruto, whom they termed as the ‘good Ruto’, is a big threat to the Deputy President, whom they referred to as the ‘bad Ruto’, in the 2022 succession politics.   Mr Odinga said Rift Valley had shifted ground to Nasa and urged all Kenyans to support his election bid, saying his presidency will be a new dawn for Kenyans who for a long have been denied good leadership. “The folding up of URP by the Deputy President to form Jubilee Party had made it a healthy ground for the people of Rift Valley to enroll with Governor Ruto’s Chama Cha Mashinani party,” he said. ANNE WAIGURUMr Odinga accused the President and his deputy of abetting corruption, which has made the cost of living expensive for most Kenyans. He said the two had over-borrowed in the name of development, living Kenyans with a huge loan burden. He cited the Eurobond scam through which, he claimed, the duo had lined up their pockets with a whooping Sh215 billion. “We know of the NYS scandal...they have planted the former devolution CS Anne Waiguru, a chief agent of the NYS scam, to vie for the Kirinyaga governorship seat on a Jubilee ticket. We should not allow them more room to loot us,” he said. MANIFESTOSThe Nasa presidential candidate said they will implement their Manifesto, criticising Jubilee's, which he said is full of empty promises. “Our manifesto is real and we will begin implementing the free secondary education on September after forming our government,” he said. He added: "Kenyans are crying all over. Their rule is embedded with empty promises, for example the laptop project where standard one pupils are still waiting for the gadgets to date. "The much talked about of the tarmacking of the 10,000 kilometre road network is still a dream five years after they were elected,” he said.   KITUI PROJECTSHe said most of the roads launched by the Jubilee leaders were initiatives by him and Mr Mwai Kibaki. “Ni kama kutupia kuku mahindi, kuku anafikiria mwenyewe ni mkarimu, kumbe maji yanachemshwa na kisu kinanolewa anafanywa kitoweo. "Hivi ndivyo Jubilee inadanganya Wakenya hivi sasa……….. (It is like feeding a hen on maize grains, making it think all is well yet it is about to be slaughtered. This is how Jubilee leaders are cheating Kenyans),” Mr Odinga said. Mr Kalonzo rubbished the projects launched by Mr Kenyatta in Kitui on Friday, saying the move is merely to hoodwink Kenyans. “These are the projects I launched some years back when I was Kenya’s vice-president and minister. The people of Kitui know the truth well,” he said. COUNTY FUNDSHe echoed Mr Odinga’s sentiments on Rift Valley shifting ground saying the Bomet rally is a true indication that Nasa will win in the next poll. Governor Ruto told the gathering that when Nasa takes over, it will allocate 45 per cent of its audited national revenue of the previous year to the counties for the implementation of development. “Jubilee is cheating Kenyans that it had devolved adequate funds to the counties for development, yet it had devolved a meagre 15 per cent,” he said. SECONDARY EDUCATIONHe said it is foolhardy for the Jubilee administration to promise Kenyans free secondary education by January yet they could not do so in the four years they have been in power. “They should send us our school fees expenses from January to date through M-Pesa if they are serious about their promises,” he said. Mr Wetang'ula and Mr Mudavadi asked Kenyans to 'send Jubilee home' as they had failed Kenyans. They said a Nasa leadership is the best for Kenyans. “Turkana, Kajiado, Laikipia, Baringo and central Kenya are warming up to Nasa, a clear indication that Kenyans are fed up with the Jubilee administration,” Mr Mudavadi said. TEACHERS SUPPORT NASAMombasa Governor Hassan Joho cautioned Kenyans against voting for Jubilee again. Knut secretary general Wilson Sossion said teachers will support Nasa because its manifesto provides hope for the teaching fraternity. Machakos Senator Johnson Muthama, his Siaya counterpart James Orengo, MPs Johana Ng’eno (Emurua Dikirr), Zakayo Cheruiyot (Kuresoi South), Patrick Ntutu (Narok West), and Junet Mohamed (Suna East), among others, were present.  