Ann Wanjiru Ndira, 20, from Kikuyu in Kiambu County, passes for an ordinary youngster.The second year bachelor of Corporate Business student at Co-operative University of Kenya reflects every feature that typically defines those in her age bracket.She is unable to put her smartphone down, and keeps one of her earphones on, listening to music as we have this conversation. Nothing about her manner or her expression suggests anything amiss about her. What you see when you look at Wanjiru is the animation and vigour that comes with youth. Beneath this however is a moving story of misfortune and inspiration. Wanjiru has a 9mm piece of lead sitting in her body, just above the small of her back, and delicately, very delicately, near her spinal cord. For more than one year now, her family has lived in a state of anxiety of what damage the bullet may cause should it draw too close to her spinal cord. The bullet, fired by a policeman pursuing a suspect who had escaped from the nearby Kikuyu Police Station, hit her after missing the suspect, and has been lodged in her body since the February 15, 2016. I was due to return to school that evening, and was taking my younger sister to our mother s place of work. We had just crossed the road when I heard two gunshots. Everyone lay on the ground. As my sister and I dropped to the ground to take cover, I felt a piercing sensation at the back. I felt the spot with my hand, which came away with blood. It is then that it occurred to her that she had been shot. Out of shock, confusion and a stinging numbness that was starting to build up in her body, she began screaming. Meanwhile, her sister, who was eight years then, rushed to report the incident to their mother. People who witnessed the incident rushed to help me. Despite realising his mistake, the policeman that shot me did not stop to acknowledge what had happened, instead, he escorted the suspect, who had been shot in the leg, back to the police station, Wanjiru says.At PCEA Kikuyu Hospital where she was taken by a Good Samaritan, doctors examined her, took an X-ray and dressed the wound before recommending her transfer to Kenyatta National Hospital. This facility, the doctors said, lacked adequate capacity to operate on her to remove the bullet.OCCASIONAL DISCOMFORTAfter waiting the whole evening to be attended to at the national referral hospital, even here, doctors did not want to take chances. Wanjiru was transferred to The Mater Hospital. I was placed in the High Dependency Unit (HDU). I conscious and in horrific pain. I was also frightened because I thought I would become paralysed. The doctors kept asking me to lift my arms and legs to see if coordination had been affected, which would mean the bullet had touched my spine. At this hospital, where Wanjiru would remain for a week in the HDU, surgeons carried out several scans, with the results of every examination producing less hope of a safe surgery to remove the bullet. They explained to us that to extract it, they would have to tamper with many vital organs in my body, making it a highly risky operation. According to them, the outcome of the operation would also be uncertain. They advised us that such a delicate operation could only be carried out abroad in a hospital with more advanced equipment and by more experienced doctors, her father, Josphat Ndira, recollects. After one week, when she had stabilised, Wanjiru was discharged from the hospital, but with the bullet still lodged in her body, to recuperate at home. Since February last year, I have been visiting Mater Hospital twice every month for reviews. Doctors recommended occasional examinations to determine the position of the bullet lest it edged too close to the spine, Wanjiru says.X-Ray photos show a hole drilled by the bullet, and the delicacy of its position, only inches away from her spine. Although Wanjiru has been generally healthy since the accident, she occasionally experiences lower back pains, while her body has become more susceptible to cold. She avoids strenuous tasks, fearing a shift in the position of the bullet. Despite occasional discomfort at the back, which feels like cramps, everything else feels normal. I am also able to walk without any strain and sleep well, both on my back and my side. At the main campus of Co-operative University in Karen, where she goes to school, she leads a normal life. In her hostel room, Wanjiru cooks, cleans and performs all household chores herself, just like her fellow students. She attends her lectures as regularly as before and even hangs out with her friends very much the same way she did before the tragedy. Her grades in school are as steady as they were before, and to someone who does not know her at a personal level, Wanjiru is one of the hundreds of students pursuing an education in this campus. Sometimes I forget I have a bullet in my body. It is only when people ask me about it that I become conscious of it. Whenever I am experiencing pain, I don t tell my dad and mum because I don t want to have them worry. When the pain comes when in the middle of something, I normally excuse myself and lay down to rest, mostly though, when not studying, I am out having fun with friends. The young woman s cheer is as obvious as it is deceptive. Wanjiru even jokes about her situation, saying that this helps to distract herself from thinking about the alien object in her body, and instead focus on her studies, her life. My friends fear asking me about it. Some think it is too traumatising to talk about. There are others however who are too curious, they even ask to see the wound. GOOD INTENTIONSIt is evident that the intervening days of the tragedy have been turbulent for this family, but even so, it is Wanjiru s mother, Jane Njeri, upon whom the events of that fateful evening seem to have shattered. Njeri appears to bear the pain and trauma of her firstborn daughter and family. I am upset because so far no one has been held responsible. Whenever she comes home from school, I look at her and know that beneath her cheer, something is terribly wrong. It is so difficult when a mother s pride in her child turns to fear for them, yet you cannot help her. But I hope that we will soon be able to get treatment for her, and for us to be relieved from this burden. Wanjiru s mother adds: She is a young woman with big dreams. As her mother, I would want to see her leading a normal life, free of constant worry like her peers. To finish school and get a job. I want her to be independent. She has a long and promising life ahead of her. But perhaps more depressing to the family is the slack manner in which the government handled the matter, which brings to the fore the level of commitment and willingness of the state to ensure that Wanjiru gets support at the very least. Mr Ndira says: The police did not bother to take my daughter s details or even investigate the circumstances leading to the accident. They were prompted to act only after the story was highlighted by Kameme FM, (a local radio station) one month later. It is then that we were called to record a statement at the Kikuyu Police Station, where we were also issued with an OB number. He says that while the investigations were being undertaken, police officers from the Independent Policing Oversight Authority (IPOA) visited the family, and promised that a thorough investigation would be conducted and action taken against the officer in case of misdemeanour and his daughter compensated.Ms Wanjiru with her parents, Josphat Ndira and Jane Njeri, during the interview. PHOTO | FRANCIS NDERITUFour and a half months after the launch of the inquiry, the office of the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) wrote to the family.The letter reads in part: After thorough investigations the file was forwarded to the Director of Public Prosecutions for perusal and advice he concluded that there was no criminal intent and that it was an unfortunate incident, hence directed the file to be closed with no further police action. Says Mr Ndira, We understand that the police officer did not mean to harm Ann. It was a mistake anyone could have committed. We do not wish to pursue any legal action against him seeing as he was absolved of any wrongdoing. Our only prayer is that the government listens and responds to our distress so that the bullet can be removed from my child s body as soon as possible. To undergo the procedure, Wanjiru s family must raise an estimated Sh5M which will cater for air tickets, hospital fee and accommodation for herself and at least two of her family members while abroad.Her family cannot afford this money. We have been mobilising funds from our friends since last year, but whatever we manage to raise is usually spent on her monthly reviews. To be able to raise this kind of money, we must conduct a big fundraiser, which we are currently organising. We have tried to do this before, but have not been very successful. This time round, I hope I will tell a more hopeful story. The family wrote a letter to the Attorney General in July last year appealing for his intervention in the matter, but is yet to hear from his office.Wanjiru may appear healthy, going about her life as any carefree young person would, but should that bullet shift position, there is no telling what might happen. The doctors say that as long as the bullet does not interfere with the natural functioning of her body s organs, my daughter could live with the bullet, but this assurance does not make us sleep easier we will only enjoy a good night s sleep when the bullet is removed, says her father, adding that joy has deserted his household.Occasionally in spite of her determination to lead a normal life, Wanjiru admits to experiencing mild depression whenever the subject of her surgery comes up for discussion in their household. It makes me nervous to imagine what might happen on that operating table. Doctors at the Mater Hospital were very honest; they made it clear that the procedure would still be risky even with highly-skilled doctors performing the operation, Wanjiru explains.Her father may cut the figure of a strong man, a pillar of hope for his family, but looking closely at the man, there are signs that this typhoon has hit him hard.BIG DREAMS Just before the accident, I had sold my lorry intending to start a new business, as it is, this money was all sucked by my daughter s medical expenses. With the burden of trying to solicit for money from friends and following up on this case, I haven t been able to settle down to get a meaningful job. Everything has been disrupted. At times we have been forced to live off support from family and friends. It has been a difficult time for us. For the last four months, Wanjiru has not been able to go for the monthly reviews, which cost about Sh10,000, owing to her family s financial woes. We are worried, but we haven t been able to go for the session since the beginning of the year. We are appealing for help from well-wishers so that we can take her for a review soon and thereafter surgery abroad, says her father.Even with the unrelenting uncertainty hanging over her head Wanjiru s ambition of finishing her undergraduate studies to become an auditor is firmly on course, and as vibrant now as it was before the saddening events of that evening in February last year. I remain hopeful that I will survive this and heal. God saved me when the bullet hit me. He has enabled me to live to this day, and I believe he will see me through the operation. She adds, I dream of starting my own auditing firm in future. This bullet in my body has not stopped me, if anything, it has strengthened my desire and resolve to excel in my studies and to excel in life thereafter. I have only two more years in college. I am confident more than ever before. n take her for a review soon and thereafter surgery abroad, says her father.Even with the unrelenting uncertainty hanging over her head Wanjiru s ambition of finishing her undergraduate studies to become an auditor is firmly on course, and as vibrant now as it was before the saddening events of that evening in February last year. I remain hopeful that I will survive this and heal. God saved me when the bullet hit me. He has enabled me to live to this day, and I believe he will see me through the operation. She adds, I dream of starting my own auditing firm in future. This bullet in my body has not stopped me, if anything, it has strengthened my desire and resolve to excel in my studies and to excel in life thereafter. I have only two more years in college. I am confident more than ever before. email print email print