New Gor Mahia coach Dylan Kerr has promised to make the club a force to reckon with in Africa even as the team suffered an embarrassing and premature exit from the GOtv Shield tournament at the weekend. Keri, who takes over from Brazilian Marcelo Ferreira, watched from the Thika Municipal Stadium grounds on Sunday as his new team lost 6-5 on penalties to Bandari, thereby ending their dream of recapturing the domestic cup they last won in 2014. In that match, K Ogalo fell behind in the 57th minute as Lewis Cosmas put the dockers ahead, but they made amends in the 74th minute through new comer Boniface Omondi as the game proceeded to a penalty shootout.Meddie Kagere, Boniface Omondi, Harun Shakava Musa Mohammed and Wellington Ochieng converted their penalties for K'Ogalo, but Francis Kahata, Ernest Wendoh, Kenneth Muguna and Boniface Oluoch failed to convert theirs.During his unveiling on Monday however, he admitted that this was not the result he had hoped for, and promised to work towards steadily improving the team s performance in the country and beyond. It is unfortunate that we went out like that because we had the upper hand throughout the game. It is not the result I wanted especially now that we are preparing to face Everton. This is a fantastic club and I was so excited when I got the call that I felt as if I could swim to Kenya. Gor Mahia has a big and good reputation. Every coach who has been here speaks highly of the team and I am happy to be here. My long term vision is to ensure that this becomes the best team in Africa. I am here for as long as the team needs me and I would like to work with the players the management and the fans, because the fans are the heart and soul of the team. I have managed a number of teams in Tanzania and South Africa, but had to leave at some point due to challenges that were beyond my control. I hope to impart the experience I have learned here to help the club achieve all its ambitions, he said. Kerr and his squad were expected to leave on Tuesday for Tanzania ahead of a friendly clash against English Premier League club Everton.The match will be staged at the Tanzania National Stadium on Thursday afternoon, and tickets are already on sale in Kenya and Tanzania for Sh150. The 15-time champions earned the honours of playing the highly rated EPL side courtesy of their 3-0 win over AFC Leopards in the SportPesa Super Cup finals played in Dar es Salaam on June 11. Despite their early exit from the domestic cup on Sunday, Gor are currently top of the SportPesa Premier League table with 28 points, same as current title holders Tusker who have an inferior goal difference. email print email print