Deputy President William Ruto was jeered during the relaunch of an East African Breweries plant in Kisumu on Wednesday. Mr Ruto was forced to quickly give up the microphone. The crowd continued to shout, “We don’t want Ruto” when President Uhuru Kenyatta started speaking. The President reopened the brewery that is expected to create jobs in the region. The plant is expected to start its operations in two years, with President Kenyatta saying the move signals rising confidence among investors in what his administration is doing to improvement the business environment. INDUSTRIES "We promised to revive all factories. That is what we are doing and we will continue to create an environment that will enable all collapsed industries to open again," he said. The President and his Deputy had earlier addressed residents in Ahero and the Kisumu bus park on their way to the plant without incident. Addressing a gathering near the main bus park in Kisumu, President Kenyatta said elections were a single day’s event and urged Kenyans to maintain peace and avoid hate. “Let us not burn our country because of elections. If we do so, we shall have nowhere to go because this is our only home. “I appeal for your votes but as democracy demands, you are free to vote for whoever you wish,” he said PROJECTS Speaking earlier at the Ahero junction, where he commissioned the construction of the Ahero-Kisii-Isebania road, the Head of State outlined the Jubilee government’s development projects, saying he is committed to improving the lives of people in all regions regardless of who they support politically. "Our plea is unity to foster development. We want to unite all Kenyans regardless of tribe, race and religion," the President said. The President and his deputy were accompanied by Cabinet secretaries Charles Keter (Energy) and Raychelle Omamo (Defence), Jubilee Party Secretary-General Raphael Tuju, Karachuonyo MP James Rege and his Kiusmu Central counterpart Ken Obura.   President says officials are mapping out island’s boundary.