Nominated Senator Beth Mugo and ODM Secretary-General Agnes Zani are among the big names guaranteed of nomination to the Senate for the second time. The two top the nomination lists uploaded by the electoral commission on its website. ELECTIONSMs Mugo, who is President Kenyatta’s cousin, tops the Jubilee Party list for the 20 slots required for nomination in the Senate. The slots are distributed as 16 for women, two for youth and the other two for the disabled. However, the distribution of the 16 women slots will depend on how all the political parties will perform in the August 8 elections. NOMINATIONAccording to nomination rules, priority is given to names that appear at the top of the party lists. The other Jubilee nominees on the list include Ms Milgo Chepkorir, who lost the party’s woman rep nomination in Bomet, at position two, Ms Millicent Omanga at position three, Ms Christine Zawadi at position four and Kajiado woman rep Mary Seneta. Others are former Jubilee Secretary-General Veronica Maina. Ms Maina is however not assured of the nomination as she is in position 10, which means that her party must perform spectacularly in the polls to guarantee her the job. ISAAC MWAURAMs Naomi Waqo, who has been representing Jubilee in the East African Legislative Assembly, is at position seven. Ms Fransisca Kamuren, who lost in the Nakuru woman rep nomination, is at position 11. Mr Isaac Mwaura, the current nominated MP on ODM ticket, is poised for Jubilee nomination in the Senate to represent the interests of persons with disabilities alongside Ms Joyce Amason. JUDITH PARENOIn ODM, which is part of Nasa, Ms Zani tops the list. This means that the senator is assured of a second term in the Senate. Ms Judith Pareno, the chairperson of ODM’s National Elections Board, is placed at position two. ROSE NYAMUNGA Ms Beatrice Kwamboka, who stepped down for Esther Passaris in the party’s Nairobi woman rep race, is number three on the list. Kisumu Woman Rep Rose Nyamunga is at position four followed by Ms Bethe Syengo, ODM’s women league chairperson. Ms Hamida Kibwana, accused alongside former IEBC CEO James Oswago for abuse of office, is at position eight. Ms Rosemary Kariuki, ODM’s director of strategy, is at position nine. SOSSIONIn the National Assembly, ODM has former Labour PS Jacqueline Oduol topping the list for the required 12 slots, Kenya National Union of Teachers Secretary-General Wilson Sossion is second followed by Migori Woman Rep Denitah Ghati. The Jubilee list has MPs Maina Kamanda (Starehe) followed by Cecily Mbarire (Runyenjes) and Bishop Jackson Koske. City lawyer Jennifer Shamalla is placed at number four. In Ford-Kenya, Ms Cynthia Mutere, a political analyst and social worker, is topping the Senate list.  