Ms Edith Roselyn Njeru, an electrical engineer, is the only woman running mate in the crowded Embu County gubernatorial race. Embu was the only county in Mt Kenya region with a female running mate in 2013 and Ms Njeru hopes to repeat the feat should former Transport PS Cyrus Njiru, who has picked her as his running mate clinch the coveted seat in next month's election. Incidentally, Ms Njeru, is a close friend of the incumbent deputy governor Dorothy Nditi, who has opted to run for the county's Woman Representative seat. Dr Njiru is running as an independent in a race with five opponents including incumbent Governor Nyaga Wambora of Jubilee Party. However, though Ms Njeru who hails from Kangungi village, Mbeere South sub-county, is gazetted by the IEBC as Dr Njiru’s running mate, not many people know about it. DIGITAL TECHNOLOGY Ms Njeru, who holds a Bachelor of Science,Electrical Engineering from University of Nairobi and also studied broadband and digital technology at United States Telecommunication Training Institute, is relatively well known in Embu County political circles. She contested the Woman Rep position in 2013 on a Ford Asili ticket. Besides, she was one of the applicants for the post of the Embu County Secretary in 2015. Ms Njeru, who worked for Kenya Broadcasting Corporation for 10 years, has been a consultant for the Judiciary and the National Assembly. READ: Women set to claim slot in the Council of Governors Speaking to the Nation while on the campaign trail in Mwea region, Mbeere South, Ms Njeru exuded confidence of winning on August 8. She pledged to utilize her skills in ensuring ICT was entrenched in Embu. ECONOMY “ICT is the current key driver of economy and I hope to let the Embu people benefit from it. We have gained a lot of ground and hope to emerge winners on August 8,” she said.   Ms Njeru ranks infrastructure, agriculture and tourism as the main components to help generate wealth in the county. In Meru County, 36-year old Irene Kathure, is the running mate of Bishop Kiambi Atheru, also  an independent gubernatorial candidate. Ms Kathure, a businesswoman, who hails from Tigania West, says her history in political leadership dates back to 2006 when she was elected the vice chairperson of Moi University Students Organisation. She holds a Postgraduate Diploma in Marketing Management and a degree in education from the Moi University. LEADERSHIP “I have been in leadership positions from a very tender age, including being in the Student Governing Council of Moi University as well as Secretary General of Nyambene University Students Association, says Ms Kathure. "I am a hardworking, aggressive and God fearing lady, with a strong desire to serve people and alleviate human suffering caused by poverty and ignorance,” Ms Kathure adds. Should they be elected, as a deputy governor, Ms Kathure intends to focus on “creation of opportunities for women and young people to enable them tap the vast resources in Meru County through agribusiness and processing”. READ: Female MPs boast strong scorecard in 11th Parliament Bishop Atheru, says as a woman, Ms Kathure would fully represent Meru women in his administration. AFFIRMATIVE ACTION “I also chose her because of issues related to the constitutional affirmative action and the desire to promote gender and development," he said. The two have promised to supply piped water to 256,000 households at a cost of Sh1.5 billion every year, and to tarmac 180km of roads across the county.   "I will eliminate corruption within the Meru County government and create additional 310,000 contractual jobs in five years through agriculture, water and roads projects. This will cost Sh4 billion every year," Bishop Atheru stated. AGRICULTURE They are also offering to give free agriculture, livestock and fisheries extension services besides subsidising farm inputs. Other pledges include offering free health services in all county facilities, funding of 10,000 youth groups, women groups, clan groups, promotion of cooperatives, reduce county tariffs and trade licenses by 20 percent, build over 250 ECDE classrooms every year, initiate feeding programs for nursery school children, upgrade all youth polytechnics to centers of excellence and eliminate corruption through performance contracting.  