Six years ago we had the Sakata Ball competition sponsored by Safaricom. It just fizzled away and the telecommunication giant told us that there was lack of transparency from the then leadership of the Football Kenya Federation and that they had erected too many hurdles to the sponsor.That is the Kenyan way of getting more of the food before it trickles down to the people it was meant for in the first place.The main purpose for the competition was to nurture talent and give the youth ample space to better themselves; in fact, they were getting noticed and the competition was getting to be very popular with Kenyans.The rug was pulled from our feet and just like everything good that happens in this country, it was replaced with nothing and the football gods conveniently forgot about it and went ahead with their mediocrity.At a time when we are losing all sponsors of our football due to external ignorant forces it is very refreshing to learn that Safaricom has renewed its interest in football.Last Thursday, the company in cooperation with Football Kenya Federation unveiled a football competition dubbed Chapa Dimba na Safaricom aimed at unearthing young football talents in the country at an event held at Railways Club, Nairobi. It was music to our ears. The competition is set to target boys and girls aged 16 to 20 years. It will kick off on Monday. Games will be played countrywide from September to March.Teams seeking to join the competition are required to register via the Safaricom website or pick the registration forms from any Safaricom shop or Local FKF branch office.Harambee Stars captain Victor Wanyama will be the tournament ambassador. Team registration and verification for the tournament will take place in July and August. The matches will start with group stages in September, followed by the knock-out stages and regional finals with the grand finale set for March.We must give hearty claps for this great move. It is something we only dreamed of but it has finally come to pass. This move should encourage other corporate bodies to help save our football and youth in this country. We have not had the courage to record the gains made by such sponsorship but it is our sincere hope that FKF shall take its time and employ people to keep the records of just how many youth shall be discovered after taking part in this tournament.It is our earnest duty to point out that even though the present FKF has not done much, there is a direction they have taken that may get us out of the present quagmire. Kudos to Safaricom and FKF for this good move; it fills us with pride. email print email print