The electoral commission has disqualified Rarieda independent parliamentary candidate Augustine Netto Adhola from the August 8 race. Mr Netto now becomes the first casualty on the long list of politicians who have breached the electoral code of conduct, receiving the last and final form of punishment from the IEBC: being barred from the race altogether. SH250,000 FINE Mr Netto had on June 22 been ordered to pay, within 48 hours, a Sh250,00 fine to the commission and remove all posters and campaign materials bearing ODM colours and images of ODM leader Raila Odinga or he would be disqualified. “The Electoral Code of Conduct Enforcement Committee notes that the said Netto Adhola failed, neglected and ignored to obey any of the Orders or at all,” IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati said in a statement. Though Mr Netto had filed an appeal at the High Court to stay the execution of the punishment, Mr Chebukati said, he had lost the case on June 30 with the court affirming the decision of the electoral agency. “In the premises, the commission has enforced the decision of the committee of June 22, 2017 and hereby directs that Augustine Netto Adhola is disqualified from contesting in the upcoming General elections 2017,” Mr Chebukati, the chairman of the committee whose members are the IEBC commissioners, said in the statement. SH1 MILLION The case against Mr Netto, filed by Erick Onyango, was one of seven filed with the committee. The committee had fined Bungoma Governor Ken Lusaka (Jubilee) and his Ford-Kenya rival Wycliffe Wangamati Sh1 million each, while the Jubilee candidate for the Kibwezi East seat was slapped with a Sh500,000 fine for violence meted out by his supporters against Wiper candidate and sitting MP Jessica Mbalu. Meanwhile, the commission has summoned 24 politicians fighting for various seats for violence and breach of the code of conduct. The politicians have been asked to appear before the IEBC Electoral Code of Conduct Enforcement Committee on July 6. SUMMONS “The Commission will continue to strictly enforce the Electoral Code of Conduct, across the country: and we demand adherence of all political players,” Mr Chebukati said. “We remain committed to delivering free, fair and credible elections devoid of violence or intimidation.” Those summoned include Migori Governor Okoth Obado and his independent rival Ochilo Ayacko; Meru Woman Representative Florence Kajuju and rival Kawira Mwangaza; and Rarieda MP Nicholas Gumbo, who is gunning for the Siaya governor's seat as an independent and has sued his former party ODM. MCAs Others are Milka Chelangat Psiwa, Jonas Kuko and Lawrence Mukosu in the Saboti parliamentary seat; Fredrick Hussein and Robert Momanyi in the Makadara parliamentary seat; Peter Kinyua and Kimani Ngunjiri Onesmus in the Bahati parliamentary race; and John Ngari Wainaina and Joseph Wambugu in the Karura ward race in Nairobi County. Also summoned are MCA candidates Ken Odhiambo and Dorine Aoko Odhiambo (East Kamagak Ward-Kasipul constituency); Kenya Urban Roads Authority and Paul Irungu (Pumwani Ward-Starehe constituency); Rose Atieno and Francis Obingo Were (Tuwan Ward-Saboti constituency); and Joseph Kimenye Mutuku and Muasa Benson Mbindyo (Machakos Central Ward).  