His face has been on local television shows for years now. He has appeared in such big shows like Lies That Bind , Jane and Abel , Love 101 among other s and also on several TV commercials. He was in the award-winning movie Kati Kati and will be in the upcoming movie 18 Hours which will premier in October, 2017. Who is Brian Ogola?He is a 27-year-old actor who was born and raised in Nairobi. I grew up in Eastlands; Greenfields in Donholm and later in Umoja estate. I am the second born in a family of 14 children and I can tell you it came with its own challenges. My mother is the second wife and I am the second born son. It was a joy growing up in a big family because it brought great compassion, joy, and strength. Why acting?Before I went in to acting, I had a career in accounting. I have a few diplomas under my belt, but I had to drop out of law school after two semesters because it wasn t working for me. It is a passion that I have had for a while now. What is in the pipeline for you? I have just finished shooting a TV series called The System which is a political drama. I play the president s son who has to overcome turmoil in order to be respected in the political world. I m also part of the lead cast of 18 Hours , a feature film about the state of our nation s emergency healthcare system set for release in October 2017.I will be on stage at Kenya National Theater on 29th and 30th July for the second instalment of Owaahh s Too Early For Birds, after missing the first one. How did you end up in 18 Hours ?I just sent my resume and after a few days got a call to go for auditions. I got another call telling me that I had landed one of the leading roles in the film. I play a character called Mark who is an experienced paramedic and his character is trying to show another medic how the ropes work because it is his first day on the job. The film is based on a true story. Most of the crew in the film are below 30 years, how was the experience?I can confess it was one of the most professional crew I have ever worked with. Most of them are KU alumnae. On set you could see that these were people who were really passionate in what they were doing. Which one do you rather; In front of a camera or on stage?I would definitely say being in front of a camera. But don t get me wrong, the stage definitely has its magic. There is something very magical interacting with the audience. Letting them react with what you are doing on stage. That is why most actors always go back for inspiration. I m crazy about the movies. The way you shoot it, edit it and the way no one knows how it is going to turn out. email print email print