Meru Governor Peter Munya has threatened to reconsider his political stand due to what he says is persistent harassment by national government administrators.This is seen as veiled threat to shift his support from Jubilee s Uhuru Kenyatta to the opposition which has been making inroads in the region.Speaking during a campaign rally at Githongo in Imenti Central on Sunday, a visibly agitated Mr Munya warned that he is running out of patience in supporting Jubilee amidst the harassment.For the second day in a row, police were forced to fire teargas canisters to disperse rowdy youths who were chanting anti-Munya slogans.On Saturday, Ushirika Day celebrations at Mwichiune in Imenti South were disrupted after police teargassed youths who were chanting Jubilee slogans.TEAR GASHowever, during the Sunday rally, Mr Munya questioned the police decision to use tear gas, terming the move ill-timed. "Why have the security officers used teargas? That was aimed at frightening the crowd. I understand a chief organised a meeting yesterday to plan how my rally would be disrupted," said Mr Munya.Speaking after calm had been restored, the governor said Meru has a big number of votes which should not be taken for granted. The provincial administration has an agenda against me. Let them be warned that they are playing around with the Meru votes. If they continue with this agenda, we can think otherwise. I am warning them if they continue using State functionaries to harass my supporters and disrupt my meetings, I will rethink my stand on this politics, Mr Munya said.ENOUGH IS ENOUGHHe added, We are giving them a notice because enough is enough. I am tired of being followed by administrators and when my meetings are disrupted, no one is being arrested. I am increasingly getting tired. Let them not think they can shake me here in Meru. I am well grounded. Mr Munya urged the police and the administrators to desist from being partisan to ensure peace prevails. It is against the election rules for my opponents to come and set up banners with insults in my meeting. I am asking the IEBC to take charge and deal with those breaking the law for [for there to be] peaceful campaigns, he said.The county boss claimed that during the Saturday meeting hired goons carrying stones were brought to cause chaos.PNUAt the same time, Tigania West MP David Karithi, who is seeking re-election on a PNU ticket, also said they would withdraw their support for Jubilee if their party continues to face opposition. The decision made by the Political Parties Disputes Tribunal has been sponsored by our opponents. We know the deputy president is behind the battles facing PNU. If this continues, we will withdraw our support for Jubilee, Mr Karithi told Nation after a dinner party on Friday evening.Governor Munya has been fighting to retain his position as the PNU leader after the tribunal ruled that he and other officials were in office illegally.He maintained that he is the bona fide PNU leader and termed claims that he had been removed from office as rumours.He is also fighting claims by Senator Kiraitu Murungi that has been sponsoring youths to heckle him during his meetings in the Nyambene region."Mr Murungi should be informed that I am the PNU party leader. He can also get a party and be its leader instead of fighting my party," said the Meru governor. email print email print Munya denies ferrying his supporters to the Jubilee meetings to heckle Kiraitu.