Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua has written to the National Police Service expressing worry over allegations by Wiper gubernatorial candidate Wavinya Ndeti purporting there is a plot to burn government property to conceal corrupt doings. Denying the claims, Dr Mutua said Ms Ndeti is only trying to gain political mileage to win in the August elections. FALSE STATEMENT The letter indicates that the plot is to be carried out between July 5 and 8. "It is with great concern that I read the attached letter addressed to you by Machakos gubernatorial candidate Wavinya Ndeti purporting that there is a plot to burn government property (documents and buildings) in the county government of Machakos to thwart criminal investigations. "Nothing can be more derisive, absurd and farfetched as this claim," the letter sent to the Deputy Inspector General, Administrative Police, read.   PROMOTE ETHICS Conversely, Governor Mutua said all his dealings have been above board, hence he has nothing to hide. "In regard to integrity, I am the only governor to have invited the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) to assist in establishing an ethical governance system in the county," the letter read. In a letter by Ms Ndeti dated June 29, she said that there has been pilfering of public resources in the county. THEFT And that she had been told by someone, whose identity has not been revealed, that there is a secret plan to burn the county offices "so as to destroy financial and procurement records as part of a wider scheme to cover up the said economic crimes". "It is common knowledge now that out of various reports from the Office of the Auditor General and active investigations by EACC...there has been wanton looting of public resources in Machakos County government," the letter read. ELECTION VIOLENCE Governor Mutua's letter is also copied to National Cohesion and Integration Commission chairperson Francis ole Kaparo, Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission chairperson Wafula Chebukati and International Criminal Court prosecutor Fatou Bensouda.   ARREST CRIMINALS Explaining why the ICC has been looped, he said it is because the claims have the potency of sparking violence ahead of the elections, just like in 2007. He therefore urged the agencies to look into Ms Ndeti's statement and act accordingly. "Arson, especially in regard to government property, is clearly an act of domestic terrorism, whose sole aim is to create fear and despondency among the peaceful citizens of Kenya." Ms Ndeti requested the relevant state agencies to quickly secure illegally acquired assets, cautioning residents to be watchful.  