Hon. Raila Odinga (pictured) was recently reported to have said that no one should have sex on the night of August 7, in preparation for the battle of elections the next day. Since then, many people have called me to find out the scientific basis of his statement. I have exams next week and after Raila s announcement it crossed my mind that maybe I need to keep off my wife before the exams. Can you tell me how long I should do this to ensure that sex does not affect my performance? asked a Master s student.A number of people who were scheduled to drive long distances were worried that sex may affect their driving. They also called me to find out how long to abstain. One young man was worried because his girlfriend was visiting after being away for six months and he had a job interview the next day. I wondered how to explain it to her that I had a job interview and so needed to take a break from sex, he told me. I did not want to reduce my chances of passing the interview. And so the big question is whether sex takes away your luck and deprives you of success. I believe it saps your energy so that the next day, you are too weak to be of any good in physical activities, said an athlete who believes that he has been winning because of sexual abstinence.Muhammad Ali was also known to have avoided sex for as long as six weeksIn 444 B.C. Plato, a Greek philosopher, wrote that athletes competing in the Olympics should abstain from sex if they wanted to win. Boxer Muhammad Ali was also known to have avoided sex for as long as six weeks before a major fight. The common reason for this is that sex depletes the body of energy.Others believe that sex depletes the body of testosterone (the hormone that causes sex desire and also aggression, making one vicious and competent in physical activities). Do these arguments stand the test of science? Science tells us that during sex, you use as much energy as it takes to climb one flight of stairs. Therefore, sex should not stop an athlete from winning a race.Further, sex has never been a bad omen. If so, all successful, sexually active men and women would lose all their wealth, power and fame in one night. This belief is based on the negative socialisation regarding sex and is not supported by scientific facts.Ultimate proof of success for the human species is intimacy with the one you consider highlyThere is one fact that has been proven in history: It is known that the first natural duty of a species is procreation. We are all driven by nature to strive for success as a means of mate attraction. Many successful men and women have put in lots of energy to excel in order to be acceptable to a reasonable partner. Following mate acceptance, the ultimate proof of success for the human species is to get intimate with the one you consider highly. Sex with such a person leads to satisfaction and a sense of fulfilment. It makes you have peace of mind and relaxes your body.Now, imagine a person who has enjoyed sex. They are at peace and relaxed in body and mind. Such a person may not exhibit the aggression needed to win competitive games. Their state of mind does not allow for that. The person is content and not suited for the battlefield. It is therefore the state of mind rather than the depletion of physical energy or the reduction of testosterone that makes sex inappropriate before a battle.If you think sex will make you too content and relaxed to go and vote, then Raila s argument holds some salt; perhaps Jubilee and other parties should issue similar memoranda to their followers. Otherwise continue enjoying the God-given gift of sex with your spouse, wake up in good time, and vote for the candidate of your choice. email print email print Birth control helps you relax, knowing you are safe from pregnancy. But what do you do if it also dampens your libido?