Hello Pastor Kitoto, I am 38 years and have been looking for a husband without success. When I do meet someone, the relationship does not last more than three months, a factor I am unable to explain. I am a prayerful woman, but obviously, my prayers have been in vain. I know how to cook, take care of a man and I dress well; I would therefore say that I have what it takes to be a wife. I am so discouraged, that nowadays, I am unable to finish praying, and instead end up breaking into tears midway. I am really in need of someone to settle down with. I also love children so much, I yearn for my own, however, I don’t want to have one out of wedlock. Please help me.  Hello to you, I am one of those people who sincerely believe that age is just a number, however, it is a number that terrifies many of us and causes so much anxiety and untold pain. In your case, it is being in your late thirties, unmarried and without children, for others, it is looming retirement, while others there are those that anxious because at a certain age, they still hold junior positions at work. Whatever it is, age has a way of cementing fear in us. From your email, you have been a faithful prayer warrior and a woman of integrity for all these years. GOOD THINGS I encourage you not to give up now, because you might miss out on the good things you have been lining up for yourself. And do not compromise your integrity for what might be temporary gain. Take comfort in the fact that I have seen many who have persevered like you walk down the aisle with the partner of their dreams by their side. I have also seen those who compromise on their values end up regretting the decisions they made in haste. Be patient in prayer and wait for Him who answers prayers to come through for you. I pray that he will hear you and encourage your heart.  Which of these two men should I settle for? Dear Mr Kitoto, Thank you for your good work; you help many through this column. I need your help. I am 29 and broke up with my ex, who is 32, last year in January after dating for four years. Our relationship was not all that rosy, but we did our best to make it work and we loved each other. We started dating while in college, and though he had a job, he did not earn much, so he couldn’t support me financially, but was fine with me. He comes from a humble background while mine is a middle class family though we belong to the same tribe. After a-year-and-a-half of dating, he lost his job, and I stood by him and assisted him in every way I could. In 2014, I got a job in a reputable company. This is when cracks began to develop in our relationship. His relatives began to tell him that I would leave him. Suddenly, our relationship became his family’s affair, and his father started pushing him to marry me. He became insecure and started drinking too much, and when he did, would be abusive towards me, but would apologise when he sobered up. Out of pressure from his family, he told me that he wanted us to get married, but I was hesitant, due to our instable relationship. I shared my fears with my mother, who advised me not to commit to marriage until we resolved our issues. When I told my boyfriend this, he was furious, saying my family and I were undermining him and his family because they were not rich, that my mother wanted me to get married to a rich man. He went ahead and attacked me on the social media and through text messages. I could not take any more and broke up with him. Later, he sent his friends with messages of reconciliation, but I was still hurt and wanted nothing to do with him. I have since met someone else, but my ex still calls me and texts me, reminding me of the good times we had together, telling me he is unable to move on without me. This new man is my agemate, is God-fearing, loving, caring and does not drink alcohol. He also has a job and is educated. I am however suffering from commitment phobia. I fear that we will end up breaking up after years of dating like happened in my previous relationship. There’s also the fact that we are from different tribes, which are political rivals. He is also from a very humble background and seems to harbour lots of secrets about his childhood and family, which calls for lots of patience from me, hoping that he will open up eventually. Here is my dilemma. Should I be patient enough to build this young relationship or should I make up with my ex if he is ready to fix his drinking problem, his insecurity and allowing himself to be controlled by his family or should I just look for a new boyfriend all together? Please advise me.  Hello there, This must be one of the longest questions I have ever received! Relationships should be founded on love and mutual trust and support. Also, faithfulness and trust are values that cannot be imposed, rather, should come willingly. Also, love knows no boundaries and should therefore transcend colour, ethnicity and social strata, so it shouldn’t matter that the person you are dating speaks a different tribe or comes from a poor background. INSECURE It is clear from his actions that your ex was intimidated and insecure because you seemed to be doing better than him and that you come from a well-off family. The effort by his parents to have you married also emanated from an insincere motive. Also, how he treated you was a clear show of his desire to gain control of you through intimidation. Fast forward to now, and he wants you back, placing a dilemma in your hands. You don’t know whether to get back with him or concentrate on your current relationship with this man that elicits numerous doubts. My question would be, is what you feel towards this new man love or is this a rebound relationship? OPTIONS You have three options: First, leave number one for good and give number two a chance whole-heartedly, but only if you believe the two of you have a future together. My observation however is that you know so little about him. There’s also the fact that he is not forthcoming with information you need to consider a long-term relationship. Would you then be jumping from the frying pan into the fire? Second, drop number two and go back to number one. But what about the heartbreak and the frustration and pain he caused you? It is possible to resolve the issues that led to the breakdown of your relationship, but I feel that you need the guidance of a good counsellor to achieve this. ISSUES RESOLVED My only fear is whether both of you have the will to see these issues resolved. For instance, is your ex independent enough to stand up to his parents and tell them to stop meddling in his affairs? After four years of dating, you know him better and therefore only you can answer this question. The third is take a break from relationships altogether to clear your mind and get your life together. You might find that the real issue here is that you are not emotionally and mentally ready for marriage. Should you settle for this option, work on getting your priorities right. Send your relationship  questions to dn2@ke.nationmedia.com  