Ugandan Duncan Mugabe and Natali Coronel of Argentina on Saturday won the men and women's singles titles as this year's edition of the Britam Kenya Open ended at the Nairobi Club. Mugabe beat Kenya's Sheil Kotecha 4-6, 6-1, 6-4 in the men's final as Coronel edged out Gabon's Celestine Avomo Ella 6-3, 4-6, 6-0 in the women's affair. Mugabe walked away with Sh90,000 while the Argentine won Sh80,000 after her triumph over the Gabonese. It was the first time in over two decades that no Kenyan player reached the ladies singles final of the prestigious competition which was in it's 92nd edition. Mugabe, who beat Ibrahim Kibet in the semi-final, was pleased to reclaim the title he last won in 2013. "Last year was not a very good experience and I have been able to control my temperament and that has worked well on my game," the Ugandan told Nation Sport. It was the 26-year-old's fourth Kenya Open crown following his triumphs in 2010, 2011 and 2013. Last year, he had reached the final but was disqualified for bad conduct in the semis and later fined Sh10,000. CAME FROM BEHIND The Ugandan however had to come from behind as Kotecha came out guns blazing in the first set. After six games, the two were tied 3-3. However, Kotecha, who had dumped out last year's winner and top seed Ismail Changawa in the semis, again showed his good form to grind out the result and take the first set in 45 minutes. Buoyed by the opening set win and a charged home crowd, Kotecha took the opening game of the second set with some impressive serving. However, Mugabe managed to work on his poor reception as he rallied back to take the set and level the match forcing a decider. He used his experience over the years to put the Kenyan to the sword as he claimed the third set 6-4. A disappointed Kotecha vowed to come back stronger next year. "I think I gave a good account of myself and it is was unfortunate I couldn't take the advantage after the first set," Kotecha said. The women's final was also a three-set affair as Coronel managed to check Avomo's comeback to win her first title in her debut in the competition. The Argentine, who is based in Uganda, said the Open would now be a fixture in her tour plans. "My friends had told me about this competition and I am glad I entered. The players were amazing and I learnt a lot. Ella has big serves and I had to be at my best to contain her," Coronel said.  