The Jubilee Government s manifesto of 2017 is silent on what happened to the 2013 promise to build five new national stadiums in Mombasa, Kisumu, Nakuru, Eldoret and Garissa.Instead, it makes a plethora of new promises. This is like telling the person whose money you owe: Come for it on the 30th of this month. But when he comes on 30th and without explaining what has changed, you tell him with a straight face: Come for it on the 30th of next month. Why should he trust you?But maybe you have concluded there is nothing he can do to make you keep your word. Alternatively, he probably can believe anything you say. Either way, he s not worth a minute s loss of your sleep.I can only wish good luck to AFC Leopards and Gor Mahia as they eagerly await the largesse promised in the 2017 manifesto and commiserate with so many other fine sportsmen and women who did not seem to merit any attention.I read both the Jubilee and Nasa manifestos hoping for something new. I was disappointed. I was hoping for something different from the usual platitudes like sports being an important activity that has put Kenya on the world map. (Those sound eerily like the usual his death is a loss not only to his family but to the country as a whole. ) I was hoping for a document that would go beyond pledges to do what much smaller economies like Equatorial Guinea, Gabon and Burkina Faso have done without breaking a sweat. I wasn t looking forward to pledges like building an international standard stadium. We should by now have been way beyond that. But here we still are, bogged down like a frantic Safari car on a rainy Easter morning 40 years ago in Nkubu. We are stuck in a time warp. If you go to some of the stadiums whose refurbishment is being touted as if that will finally see us burst into the 21st century, you will be shocked. People still stand on grass, exposed to the harsh elements, behind wire meshes exactly as their grandfathers did when watching the Remington Cup in the 1940s. They look like prisoners in a concentration camp. Football Kenya Federation officials inspect Moi Stadium, Kisumu in 2011 before work on rehabilitation that continues to date started. PHOTO | FILE | NATION EMDIA GROUPI don t how refurbishment will look like. I hope not like the school uniform pairs of shorts - we called them kaptulas - that we put so many patches on each time they tore. I cannot forget one morning when our headmaster grimly contemplated the outfit of one boy and then gravely, and matter-of-factly, told him: Just tell your father to buy you a new one. He must have been pondering the hard financial circumstances strangling that family before he said that. But the refurbishment had reached the limit and only a new pair could do. It s the same with our colonial era stadiums. Some of them, used to screen men and women to determine who would be locked up and who wouldn t, are beyond any credible refurbishment. Just pull them down and build new ones. This great nation whose sportsmen and women have put it on the world map can afford it if it wants to, that is. I was hoping for a big idea. The most audacious plan to turn around our social and economic fortunes that I have ever heard during the decades of electoral cycles that I have been privileged to witness did not even come from a political party manifesto. It was from a gubernatorial candidate. During the 2013 campaigns a banker, Jimnah Mbaru, said that the fastest way of making Nairobi a world class city would be to bid for the 2022 Commonwealth Games. To make a credible bid, he said, the city would be forced to make such far reaching developments on its road, rail and housing infrastructure, its health and sanitation services and its hospitality industry in addition to building world-class sports facilities that even if the bid failed, there would be no turning back. The bid would give an enormous impetus to sports in the country which is a big asset the country already possessed and for which the world knew it since the 1956 Olympics. The rigours of the most intrusive inspection and the tightness of the time frame would result in a transformed way of thinking. It would change us forever. Politics being what it is, Mbaru lost to a party apparatchik and, as they say, the rest is history. The Ziwani football ground, a place where supporters of the two candidates clashed and is home to some of Kenya s most beloved football stars of yore, is in far worse shape than when the colonialists handed it to us in 1963. Young Rovers's Brian Kamundia (left) vies for the ball with A 1000 Street midfielder Brian Osumba during their Koth Biro round of 16 match on December 27, 2015 at Ziwani grounds. A 1000 Street won 5-4 on post-match penalties. PHOTO | CHRIS OMOLLO |NATION MEDIA GROUPIt doesn t feature in the refurbishment plans contained in the Jubilee manifesto and neither does it, of course, appear anywhere in the Nasa one.Best wishes then, to Boniface Mwangi, the dashing Starehe MP candidate who has said he will rehabilitate it. I guess he will do that using CDF funds if he wins. If that happens, the youth of Eastlands and all followers of Kothbiro, Kenya s oldest continuously held football tournament, will appreciate.This is all water under the bridge and in all likelihood it will be nothing but fodder for the pleasures of our imagination until the end of our lives. But for this once, let us indulge the thought: what if Jimnah Mbaru s idea was ever followed through? I grew up watching sailing in Nairobi Dam on Sunday afternoons.Maybe the dam would have been dredged and restored! Maybe the Nairobi Sailing Club would have been revived. And maybe the starting whistle to Kenya s participation in the Olympic Games sailing competition would have been blown. If, like me, you saw those boys from Lenana School falling overboard from their boats and submerging and re-surfacing from the pristine water, go there today but only if you want to weep until your ribs ache. If you have been too much of a man, especially if you are stuck with Arsene Wenger, follow the advice of your psychological therapist and go there for nothing else but just to cry.You could normalise your blood pressure as a result and add more days to your life. The dam is beneath probably the world s thickest carpet of water hyacinth. It is the repository of effluent from the massive Kibera slum. On top of the grime that oozes from the hyacinth to form a stinking little stream is a tall office building. I hear it was earmarked for demolition but the owner is apparently stronger than the city authorities. Some people who know have muttered that a river never forgets its course and that one day, Ngong River will extract a terrible vengeance on him. I say Amen to that sentiment.If only we stopped thinking small. If only we believed that we are better than we are. We could think of connecting from one Games venue to another wrestling to archery, for instance with trams and not boda bodas. It is Durban now that will host the XXII Commonwealth Games in 2022. There will be gymnastics, fencing, road cycling, mountain biking, track cycling, rowing, bowls, beach volleyball, diving, netball, squash, table tennis, wrestling, triathlon and whatnot.Kenya will depend on its usual athletics. Two or three more disciplines will provide escort services. The city of Durban is extremely busy preparing to make its feast a success while we are already debating who will be our president at that time. And this is even before we have sorted out the 2017 one. Don t we deserve pity? I think we do. Prayers? No, I caution against it; I fear we could annoy and provoke God.It is clear from the manifestos of the two major political parties, one of whom will form the next government, that we can expect nothing but more of the same. The failure of the imagination on both sides is catastrophic. It is worthy of mourning but I will not mourn. It is such a beautiful reverie, remembering when I covered the Commonwealth Games for the Nation in Brisbane, Australia in 1982 and imagining that the same could happen in Nairobi. There is an intensity of pleasure fantasizing the crisscrossing of the city in day or night while going to distant venues. International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF) chief executive Olivier Gers (centre), Athletics Kenya President Jack Tuwei (left) and IAAF World Under-18 Championships chief executive Mwangi Muthee sample the synthetic running track surface being laid at the Moi International Sports Centre, Kasarani for next month's IAAF World Under-18 Championships. PHOTO | IAAF |There is an adrenaline rush as you fight the clock to file your stories on time. And there is great fulfilment in the running conversations with your readers made instant today by information technology. It cannot happen here, it is for other people to do it, while we do the politics for politics sake.The only thing I liked about the two parties manifestos is that none made any mention of January s scheduled African Nations Championships. My hope is that that is a preamble to telling Caf, Sorry folks, we can t hack it. Too hard. Which indeed it is because at this stage, we should already have staged a dry run and be going over the list of items to fine-tune. A section of renovated Kinoru Stadium in Meru County in this picture taken on June 14, 2017. The stadium will be closed down for five months to allow new grass to grow. PHOTO | PHOEBE OKALL | NATION MEDIA GROUPFKF President Nick Mwendwa (left) and Caf s second Vice President Omari Seleman (right) leave Kipchoge Keino Stadium in Eldoret on June 12, 2017 after inspecting the facility. PHOTO | BERNARD ROTICH | NATION MEDIA GROUPBut we are still at the stage of stadium construction, or refurbishment. Any misstep, and we shall be courting a disaster. Let Chan go to whoever is ready and we pick up our deserved punishment. The only sin is limitation, so wrote Ralph Waldo Emerson. But sometimes it is realistic to just accept one s limitations. It makes you stay sane as you jump on a boda boda and race through red lights and then meander against on-coming traffic on a one-way street to go and watch the English Premier League and call all that a normal life. email print email print