The annual tree planting and monthly estate-wide cleaning by the residents of Zawadi Estate in Syokimau, Machakos County, has created such a sensation in the area that people in the neighbouring  area are now visiting for “benchmarking” sessions. Borrowing heavily from the Rwandan concept of umuganda (pulling together), the residents’ annual tree planting promises to turn the otherwise semi-arid area into an eye-catching patch of greenery in a few years to come. But unlike the Rwandan monthly cleaning spearheaded by the country’s top leaders, Zawadi Estate’s tree planting is championed by young kids and their parents through a plant-and-adopt-a-tree” plan. During a recent visit to the estate, DN2 saw whole families come out to plant and water the trees, which the children proudly refer to as their own. So why did they decide to involve the young ones in the tree-planting project? “We want to build a cohesive society in Zawadi where everyone is involved, and that includes our kids. It is such a joy to see our kids mingling freely during the tree planting and watering sessions. This is the best way to inculcate leadership and mentorship values in them to enable them to  take over the estate’s leadership  in future,” saysMr Shaban Ali, the estate’s treasurer and a member of the tree planting committee. The idea is not just about planting a sapling, but nurturing it to life and being responsible for its growth,” he adds. In the project, children “adopt” a tree, enhancing their knowledge of individual trees over time, leading to greater understanding and appreciation of their environment. Eight-year-old Davinah Motogwa, a pupil at Goodrich School who has adopted eight saplings, says her first responsibility after school is watering them. “I ensured that my dad bought me a watering can which I use every evening. Also, from time to time I collect manure from our chicken coop and spread  it around the trees. That’s why mine are healthier than Ray Mogire’s,” she says, pointing  at six-year-old Ray, a Standard One pupil at Riara Primary School, who has “adopted” three trees. So, what inspired the neighbours from different parts of the country to initiate the annual event? Mr Joshua Oliech, an engineer who is the estate’s vice-chairman, says it was the realisation that unity is strength. NEIGHBOURS' KEEPER “Indeed we have made great strides since we came together as neighbours. The greatest reason for our coming together was to improve the access road to our estate which, initially, was in a horrible state, with vehicles getting stuck during the rainy season. This provided a conducive environment upon which to forge that unity of purpose,” he says. “In addition, we introduced monthly cleaning sessions, during which all the men come out with their slashers and pangas to cut the grass and weeds while the women collect the them. It is an activity that has truly enhanced our bond as neighbours,” he adds with a tinge of pride. Given that  many parts of the country are reeling under the effects of negative ethnicity, how have the estate’s residents, who come from different ethnic communities, been able to live harmoniously without the usual suspicion that pervades many social groups because of our toxic national politics? Mr Samuel Omondi, a construction consultant who is in charge of the monthly cleaning, puts the source of the brotherhood thus: “In Zawadi Estate, we are not divided by tribe, colour or religion. We proudly refer to ourselves as Wanazawadi. Every person is given an opportunity to propose how they want issues tackled but at the end of the day, all matters are discussed and agreed upon through consensus. I wish our national leaders would borrow a leaf from this small but tightly knit community on how to live and let live,” he says. The neighbours have organised themselves into four groups, which are  in charge of the environment (including tree planting), the monthly cleaning sessions, security and street lighting respectively. When they first moved in a few  years ago, cases of break-ins and muggings were so common in the sprawling estate that a few people left for safer neighbourhoods. However, one of the residents, Mr Richard Motogwa, a security consultant, brought his expertise to bear. He liaised with the security officers in the area including the current OCS of Mlolongo Police Station, which oversees  security in the larger Syokimau, and brought calm to an area that had been overrun by marauding gangs of armed youth. Today, Zawadi Estate is one of the safest places in the otherwise crime-infested Mlolongo area of Machakos County. The residents has taken full advantage of the benefits of modern technology. They have a WhatsApp group that includes every household,which makes coordinating their activities easier. For instance, when a drunk motorist recently drove into the estate by mistake,  he aroused the suspicion of one  the residents and within minutes, he was surrounded by a group of residents, who quickly called Administration Police officers from the nearby camp. The rapid response team dismissed the harmless, but clearly drunk driver, after a tongue-lashing. “This demonstrates that the government’s “Nyumba Kumi” initiative can greatly enhance security if embraced by all. In Zawadi, I can park my car on the street, go on a trip and come back without any fear that it might be vandalised or stolen,” says Edward Makori, an accountant popularly known as “pastor”. Mr Makori adds that he wishes that both government and Opposition leaders would occasionally  declare ceasefires and marshal their supporters to keep their neighbourhoods clean. “After ensuring that the cleaning is ingrained in the psyche of all the citizens as a national responsibility, Parliament can come up with laws laying down penalties for those who litter by dropping cigarette cigarette butts on the street or throwing rubbish out of a car window,” he adds. Another resident, Mr Jared Osiago, says Zawadi Estate has taught thim and his children the benefits of volunteering. “Coming out every now and again to pick up litter in the estate during the monthly cleaning sessions gives me a sense of accomplishment. I feel it has given me a sense of pride and identity. Seeing so many of my neighbours, some in high positions in society, collecting garbage and planting trees gives me satisfaction,” he says with a smug smile. Meanwhile, Chairman Nyagaka says that great friendships have been formed as a result of this brotherliness. “I can proudly say that it is only in Zawadi Estate where, in an emergency, I can walk into a neighbour’s compound, take the key of the extra car in the parking lot and use it without having to seek the owner’s permission. In other places, you can be charged with trespassing,” he says. HARAMBEE SPIRIT   Another factor that has enhanced this spirit of brotherliness are the occasional goat-eating parties in which every household participates. Besides, it is not unusual for a neighbour to walk in uninvited to a family’s social function and still be received warmly. “Because we have managed to turn this sprawling estate into a gated community, we are now planning to organise street bashes where residents can enjoy both entertainment and food on the street. This will further engender the spirit of sharing that we are steadfastly trying to inculcate in our kids,” says Nyagaka. So, how do they deal with errant members who refuse to participate in the estate’s activities . Mr Edward Musau, a medical researcher, says all the estate’s activities are guided by its constitution. “We have officials who tactfully engage such members and talk to them about the need to live in harmony with the other neighbours. Generally, we have not had cases of neighbours pull the other way, otherwise we would not be where we are now as a community.” Apart from tree planting, the residents have, through the harambee spirit, spread murram on a hitherto impassible 300-metre stretch of road, making them the objects of envy of their  neighbours, who have to contend with the  sticky, black cotton soil when it rains. Wanazawadi, as they proudly refer to themselves, are now in the process of installing street lights in the estate on their own. “Personally, I hate the “serikali saidia” mentality. That which I can do  for myself, I do. I realised that I shared the same vision with many of my neighbours. So usually, we don’t wait for the national or county government to initiate some of these projects. We just do them ourselves,” says John Omagwa, a mechanical engineer who is in charge of communication in the estate. On the now popular annual tree planting Mr  Omagwa says: “Planting a tree is one of the most powerful ways in which you can make a difference to the environment. In our estate, we don’t just plant a tree, we adopt one. In this project, children and adults alike “adopt” a tree, deepening their awareness of individual trees over time and encouraging a greater understanding and appreciation of their local environment.” Taking a queue from some of the activities organised by the men, the women  or the estate have also come together and formed a “chama”. Mrs Brenda Ngaywa Mureithi, a veterinary doctor says: “We came together last year as Zawadi estate women upon realising that our hubbies were pulling together in very many aspects of their lives. They initiated several projects together, many of which are at different stages of completion. But unlike the men, who meet every Sunday afternoon, the women have quarterly meetings during which they decide how to help those who have been bereaved, organise baby showers, host graduation ceremonies and above all, adopt trees, Because of this, we have evolved into a tightly knit community.” Damaris Atambo, a tutor  at the Riara Group of Schools in Nairobi, adds: “The spirit of brotherhood I see in this estate is unique. It is something I would strongly recommend to those who are deeply entrenched in tribalism to learn from. We are a group from such diverse backgrounds that many people in  the neighborhood marvel at our ability to embrace one another as if we were from one region. How I wish our national leaders would learn­­­ from our men how to embrace each other, irrespective of their ethnic backgrounds.” ****** BORROWING IDEAS FROM THE BEST ZAWADI ESTATE CHAIRMAN Mr Nyagaka Mosaiga says a visit to Rwanda, during which he witnessed the umuganda principle in action, made him realise that unlike Kenyans, who constantly complain about the government’s inability to offer certain basic services, Rwandans had learnt to do a number of things for themselves. “I happened to be in Rwanda three years ago and on the fourth Saturday of that month, the entire country ground to a halt – literally. The traffic stopped, all able-bodied men and women pitched in, cleaned the streets and dug drainage ditches. Everyone was engaged in one way or another,” recalls Mr Mosaiga. “That’s when I realised that  in our own little way we could have our umuganda days here in Syokimau,” he says. Meanwhile, veterinary surgeon David Mureithi — popularly known as “engineer”— who visited Singapore in 2015, says  he would rather Kenyans kept their neighbourhoods clean out of pride and a sense of  duty as happens in Rwanda, rather than as a result of tough laws, like  in Singapore. Mr Mureithi says that during his stay in Singapore, he realised that the strict anti-littering laws introduced in the 1960s by then Prime Minister Lee Kuan Yew are still in force. “It is not by chance that the city earned the tag of being cleanest in the world. Unlike in Kenya, where city dwellers litter the streets with reckless abandon, you can be fined more than Sh100,000 for littering in Singapore;  repeat offenders can even be jailed.  Even throwing chewed gum anywhere other than the designated bin, urinating in public or failing to flush public toilets are big offences. Perhaps it is time such drastic measures were introduced in our country to curb the garbage menace,” he says. ***** FYI Notable facts about Zawadi Estate residents They have a created a cohesive society They have a constitution They demonstrate the harambee spirit They take a great interest in the environment They resolve issues via consensus The adults strive to serve as good role models for the children  