University lecturer-turned-politician Margaret Kamar has cleared the air on her relationship with former powerful Kanu-era politician Nicholas Biwott. Prof Kamar, who is running for the Uasin Gishu senatorial seat seat, on Wednesday introduced Mr Biwott’s family, including herself and her two co-wives Hannie and Kalista. MATRIARCH She introduced Hannie as the matriarch of the family and thanked her for "taking care of mzee during his younger age". "I think we have put this to rest,” she said during Mr Biwott’s requiem Mass in Toot Village in Elgeyo-Marakwet County. “You've known nothing but the whole truth.” While Prof Kamar had named Mr Biwott as her husband on her CV and online pages, she had never been seen in public with Total Man. And while she was present throughout the requiem Mass at AIC Milimani on Tuesday, there was no mention of her. CHILDREN When Mr Biwott’s cousin, only identified as Chirchir, asked members of the Biwott family to step forward for introduction, Ms Kamar did not rise. Neither was she given an opportunity to address mourners. Prof Kamar entered the church shortly before the service started and quietly took a seat among the family members, just behind Hannie and her children. However, she neither exchanged pleasantries with nor talked to them throughout the three-hour event. But on Wednesday, the three wives introduced themselves and proceeded to hold one another’s hands as they introduced their children. Mr Biwott had seven children — six daughters an one son. GRAFT Hannie recounted how she was surprised in the 1990s when Mr Biwott was accused of murder and corruption. Mr Biwott was linked to the murder of Foreign Affairs minister Robert Ouko. He was also adversely mentioned in the infamous Goldenberg scandal. He denied playing any role in Mr Ouko's death and the mega scam that almost brought Kenya's economy to its knees. "I told him to buy space in a newspaper and defend himself but he declined, saying that it was above his dignity to fight back," she said. While at university with Mr Biwott in Australia, she said, she knew him as a man of high moral principles. She said she regretted her husband's negative publicity in the media.  More follows.   Total Man wanted to spell out "some issues" on his vast business empire, says PA