The death of Interior Cabinet Secretary Joseph Nkaissery barely a year after that of Maasai de facto leader William ole Ntimama, has roiled the supposed succession plan for the community’s senior elder. Maasai Council of Elders’ treasurer David Mampuli said Maj-Gen (Rtd) Nkaissery was among those being fronted for the ceremonial position, which Mr Ntimama had held for more than a decade. He said Mr Nkaissery’s sudden death on Saturday morning has sent the community back to the drawing board in the hunt for the their political supremo. An autopsy carried out on Monday indicated that Mr Nkaissery died of a heart attack. POWERFUL MAN At the time of his death, Mr Mampuli said, Mr Nkaissery had met a key threshold towards taking over from Mr Ntimama as he was the community’s most powerful man. In addition to that qualification, to earn that position, one must be an ardent and vocal champion of Maasai rights. At 67, the minister was a senior retired elder of the Isieuri age group, but he seemed to have left his legacy elsewhere. Leaders from across the political divide are in consensus that forging a cohesive nation and improving national security remains his most indelible mark. NKAISSERY Opposition leader Raila Odinga said Nkaissery saw the protection of Kenya as his duty in life. “Despite his knowledge of battleground arsenals, it was the issue of elimination of small arms that was his foremost priority. These are the principal source of violence that has periodically ravaged parts of our nation,” said Mr Odinga. For his part, the late Ntimama was mostly known for championing Maasai land rights and the Mau Forest conservation initiatives. MAJOR BLOW He was Narok North MP for at least 25 years and his death dealt a major blow to his community, which is yet to get a replacement. Ntimama was accorded a sendoff befitting royalty, with veteran Tanzanian politician Edward Lowassa, top Kenyan leaders, as well as thousands of mourners attending his burial. Hailing the late Nkaissery as an exceptional leader, Narok Governor Samuel Tunai said Maasai leaders in Narok, Kajiado, and Samburu would work together to ensure he is accorded a grand burial befitting his stature. He termed the death a big blow to the Maa community, coming after  Ntimama’s and veteran politician John Keen’s death. SPOKESMAN It is said that it was at a meeting in the late Keen’s home in Nairobi in 1995, that Ntimama was officially given the title of Maasai spokesman by elders from Narok, Kajiado and Samburu. Backing minister During the meeting, Keen is said to have asked Ntimama to think about the person who would take the mantle from him. It was at this point that elders mentioned the future Interior CS as a possible successor. According to Mr Mampuli, Ntimama never objected to the idea, saying he would accept anyone the community would appoint. MAASAI KINGPIN Leaders who backed Nkaissery for the position of Maasai kingpin cited his performance as Kajiado Central MP, which he held up to the time he was appointed to the Cabinet by President Uhuru Kenyatta. “We are all sickened by his untimely death and his replacement will be hard to get because we have also lost our other prominent people like John Keen,” Mr Tunai said. Kajiado County chief of staff John ole Loisa says Nkaissery initiated many development projects in his constituency as MP. “I remember him for the many things he did. He once appointed me as the chairman of the Constituency Development Fund,” said Mr Loisa. RELATIVE PEACE He added that Kenyans can testify to the era of relative peace experienced since the retired Major General took over the security docket. Jubilee Party’s Kajiado Central candidate Christopher Koisikir also thinks Nkaissery had a better chance. Nkaissery was a father to everyone and would give an ear to everyone irrespective of their political affiliation. This put him in good stead to take over Mr Ntimama’s mantle,” said Mr Koisikir. OLE MAGELO Others who had been touted as possible community spokesperson are Narok Senator Stephen ole Ntutu, Nairobi County Speaker Alex ole Magelo, Kajiado Central MP Moses Kanchori and Anglican Church of Kenya Archbishop Jackson ole Sapit. The six-hour autopsy was conducted by private pathologist Bessie Byakika and Andrew Gachie as well as Dr Johansen Oduor, the government’s chief pathologists.  