A story is told in my family of one of my grandmother’s brothers. We only knew him as Babu Sulemani. For most of our lives, he was just a legend, a mythical figure who left home as a young man to work in the gold mines and didn’t return. No-one knew if he was alive or well. Our grandmother in an effort to keep his memory alive, would simply say, “There is also my younger brother Sulemani who left to work in the mines,” with a wistful longing in her eyes. Sadly, she died before she ever knew what happened to him. However, a few years after her passing on, word went round that Babu Sulemani had been found. He was old and ailing, and wanted to come home to die. My uncles and aunties made preparation to transport him from the remote village he had lived. Eventually, he was re-united with surviving members of his family, some of whom he had never met. Although he was frail, he managed to pose for pictures with his family and finally told the story of what had kept him away for almost 60 years. The family rejoiced in the reunion, and shortly after, Babu Sulemani rested peacefully, at home. When I think of Babu Sulemani, I understand deeply what home represents. For some reason, while he had been gone for several decades, Babu Sulemani never found home. And although it took him a lifetime, he eventually made his way back to that place his soul found peace. Home. For most of my growing years, Babu Sulemani was a cautionary tale, exhorting  me to never stray too far away from what is important. He reminded me to find home. Everyday. Unlike Babu Sulemani, I did not want to come home to die. I wanted to live, thrive and be happy at home everyday. It was such a big deal for me that I was always feathering whichever nest I happened to live in. In my travels, I would shop for my family and my home before I shopped for myself. Home needed to be sanctuary, a place where you have to go. It also needs to be a place you love to go to. Since time immemorial, man strives to build habitation for his body, a place of safety from the elements and wild animals. In today’s age, we are also concerned with not only creating homes that capture who we are or our aspirations but creating refuges for our souls. Home is where we go to give and receive love. This past week, I’ve had two conversations on the topic of home. One was with an interior decorator who said her friends asked why their children did not bring their friends home. Her encouragement was to create a good space for the teens. In my second conversation, I spoke to a friend who runs a charity foundation that builds homes for widows. According to her research, many widows are dispossessed and some evicted from their homes after the death of their spouse who in most cases are the breadwinners. While her foundation aims to restore the dignity of these women, many report that friends and relatives visit when they have a reasonable home. It’s amazing what having a home can do for a bereaved woman’s wellbeing and those of her children. Home. Samuel Johnson said, “To be happy at home is the ultimate result of all ambition, the end to which every enterprise and labour tends.” Over time, I have broadened my definition of home to include foreign cities that soothe my soul or people who ‘get’ me. Wherever you live and whoever you are with, may you be home. Everyday.  carole@carolemandi.com  