The Nairobi County government has started a crackdown on eateries without valid licences and unregistered water vendors, amid a cholera outbreak. Speaking to the Nation on Sunday, Dr Bernard Muia, the county's Health executive, said he had directed public health officers to rein in eating joints that do not have valid food handling certificates, in an effort to contain the spread of the disease. "I have instructed public health officers to ensure that eateries without licences and are being operated without even a toilet be given 24 hours to conform to the provisions of the Health Act or risk being closed down, and owners arrested and arraigned in court," Dr Muia said. READ: Nairobi county government on the spot over cholera READ: The Weston Hotel cholera outbreak cover up WATER Dr Muia also said that water bowsers not registered with the county or the Nairobi City Water and Sewerage Company will be banned. Additionally, public health officers will randomly inspect water supplied to the residents to determine whether it is fit for consumption. "Our health officers are now going round the city looking at the water tankers to validate whether they are registered and also to know the status of such water being supplied," he said. HENRY ROTICH Since May, there have been numerous cholera cases, with the most recent involving Treasury Cabinet Secretary Henry Rotich. On July 14, top government officials: Mr Rotich, his Trade counterpart Adan Mohammed and Trade Principal Secretary Chris Kiptoo and several staff from the Trade and the Treasury ministries were treated for cholera-related symptoms. This was after they ate food served during a trade event at KICC. FOOD The county is also working with restaurants to ensure that their foods are healthy. "The source of cholera in the big hotels is the food outsourced from outside. "We have now instructed the hotels not to handle the foods that have not been checked by our public health officers." HYGIENE More importantly, the administration has reinvigorated disease surveillance and is sensitising residents about healthy behaviours such as drinking boiled water and hand washing, among others.  