Police in Siaya are investigating an incident where unknown people broke into the county government offices on Saturday and stole valuable documents. According to the Siaya County Secretary Mr Dave Anyona, thieves broke into the governor’s boardroom and other offices in the compound and made away with three television sets among other items. “The police have launched investigations into the Saturday incident where the office of the governor and other county offices were raided by unknown people, leaving behind a trail of losses of unknown value,” said Mr Anyona. Mr Anyona said that he was informed of the incident by a worker who was on duty before he alerted the police. CRITICAL DOCUMENTS The official said that files and critical documents from the governor’s office and finance department are missing. Siaya County Deputy Commissioner Joseph Sawe, who confirmed the incident, said the police will speed up their investigations and bring to book the culprits as soon as possible. Mr Sawe said that two cleaners and an enforcement officer, who were on duty on Saturday night, are also being investigated. LOST ITEMS He told Nation that the police will summon county staff working in the affected offices to furnish the police with information over their lost items. "We do not want to pre-empt anything but our officers who were on duty have to give us their accounts because these premises are under 24-hour surveillance," he said. The cleaners said they were shocked when they arrived on duty on Sunday morning only to find broken padlocks and doors wide open. “We came to do cleaning as usual only to find various doors wide open with padlocks destroyed,” said one of the workers. PROPER SECURITY It was not, however, clear whether the thugs had targeted cash or the information stored in the files that they made away with. A senior police officer told the Nation that the governor’s compound, which remained unguarded even after the Saturday night incident, lacked proper security operatives including guards and functional CCTV cameras. A local security firm is said to have withdrawn its services following a Sh50 million arrears.  