Debutantes Kariobangi Sharks on Saturday beat AFC Leopards 2-0 in a SportPesa Premier League match at Afraha Stadium, Nakuru. Gambian striker Ebrimmah Sanneh struck the opener six minutes into the second half before Ugandan winger Mathew Tayo Odongo added a second late on with a sublime free-kick to extend Sharks’ unbeaten streak to nine matches. And the defeat came with a reprisal as angry fans barricaded the main exit at the stadium demanding an explanation from the from the club chairman Dan Mule who watched his side loose the match from the stands. By the time of filing this report, the fans were still demanding answers from the fans in the stadium. The big cats, who failed to click in the entire 90 minutes, did not have a single shot on goal in the opening half. After a barren first half, Sanneh opened the scoring after latching onto a loose ball inside the area before beating Ian Otieno with a low shot. Stung by the goal, AFC Leopards stand-in coach Tom Juma made three changes, introducing midseason signings Ray Omondi, Keziron Kizito and Mudde Musa and rested Samuel Ndung'u, Whyvonne Isuza and off colour captain Duncan Otieno.   His opposite number, William Muluya, reacted by introducing the pacy Ovella Ochieng and striker Rodgers Omondi for Duke Abuya and Sanneh. OBURU'S MISS AFC Leopards nearly equalised at the hour mark when Vincent Oburu soared high inside the box but his glancing header missed the target. Sharks then missed another opportunity to extend their lead on the other end after Tayo raced deep into Leopards the defence and laid the ball on the path of Eli Asieche, who in turn fired a rocket which was blocked by goalkeeper Ian Otieno. However, Tayo was not to be denied with eight minutes to time. The Ugandan struck the second with a sublime free-kick to silence the handful Leopards fans who had made their way to Afraha.     Juma conceded defeat and admitted his charges were not in good form. "They were the stronger side and I'm disappointed with the loss. We must work hard because winning in the GOtv Shield and losing in league matches is not good for us,” Juma said. An elated Muluhya hailed his boys for turning the game in the second half. "It was a spirited second half effort which paid dividends," said coach Muluhya.   Okare gave Sofapaka the lead after heading home Wesley Onguso's long throw.