Blac Chyna got a restraining order on Rob Kardashian, and people are losing their minds over the wrong thing, in my opinion. The restraining order states that Rob can t come within 100 metres of her, and he can t put up any pictures of her or their child, Dream, on his social networks. A lot of people on social media are pissed because they re mad that Rob can t put up pictures of his own child on social media. Chyna said something interesting. She said well if he can t respect me, and I paraphrase, then maybe he should go ahead and respect the law that says he can t put pictures up of my naked body without my consent. MAD, MAD PEOPLE People were mad at that too, talking about how she is already out there, so it doesn t make a difference whether he just puts more pictures out of her to add to the pile that exists. Let s address two issues here one, the fact that children on social media in the first place is a delicate thing, and two, this rampant rape culture that people, in 2017, still entertain. So first of all, it s entirely possible to have a child and not put them on social media. Will Dream s reputation be damaged if she isn t on social media, that she knows of? Will her brand suffer? No. In fact, in a lot of cases, it is in a child s best interests to not put their baby on social media, as many celebrities choose to do, so as to not open your child up to stalkers and the general world s weirdness before they re good and ready. Unless you re DJ Khaled, in which case we forgive you completely (lol). NEEDS TO STOP ACTING LIKE A BABY Rob doesn t have to put pictures of Dream on his Instagram to validate their familial relationship. He needs to stop acting like the baby he wants to caption. But people are mad about that but not mad about the fact that he completely invaded her privacy and put up nudes of her? How, Sway? I ve heard a lot of arguments oh, she cheated (well, they weren t together and split up right after Dream was born, so ), oh, she used his money how did she use his money? Did she take the money, or did he give it to her? And why is it that when you re in the relationship, it s always I love her, I m doing this for her, but all of a sudden when you get out of it, it is presented as some parasitic involvement that you weren t aware of? Please. People need to separate saying dumb shit while in the throes of heartbreak from generally being awful people who hang their wallets like Damoclean swords over every consensual liaison. In case you can t read between the lines, I m rolling my eyes. Second these troglodytes who say her body and its image are out there for public consumption, immediately accessible, anyway. Not. The. Point. There are pictures of Blac Chyna wearing very little, sure. But she is the one who put those pictures out there. She is the one who chose to step out in those outfits and be photographed in them. When she sent nudes, however, there was no contract (or Rob would have put it up, duh) at the bottom of the WhatsApp saying hey you can share these when you re done looking. And if there is no proof of that, then the argument is null and void, because contrary to popular opinion, sending nudes does not mean you want them shared, and, being naked before of your own consent doesn t mean you want to keep being naked. Where s the rape culture in this, you ask? Because some men take these statements and run with them if you sent me a nude, that means I own them. If you were willing to be naked before, that means you are willing to continue being naked. If you have sex with me, it means you are always willing to have sex with me. Which. Of course. For those who can t hear me at the back. It doesn t. Consent is given in every instance, at every moment, and can be withdrawn at any man or woman s pleasure, with no explanation necessary. Saying yes once doesn t mean saying yes forever. It isn t marriage or taxes. It s a daily bundle subscription that you periodically say yes to. And so, in conclusion if you receive nudes, keep them to yourself. If things got hot and heavy last night, doesn t mean they will always be hot and heavy. You see the millions of people on this universe who keep pretty naked pictures to themselves and respect each other s trust? Be like them. email print email print You know what would be awesome? A law against sharing nudes with some serious fines behind it.