Physical attraction is vital in a romantic relationship, so it’s no surprise that good looks feature quite high on the list that the average woman makes regarding the things she wants in a husband. Findings of a new study suggest that women should forego this want and perhaps settle for men who they do not deem overly attractive. Apparently, having an extremely good-looking husband erodes a woman’s own self-esteem. In fact, women who make this choice of husband are more likely to experience an eating disorder. For the study, researchers from Florida State University in the US looked into the lives of 113 newlywed couples, all of who had been married for less than four months. To begin, the participants agreed for their attractiveness to be rated. A full body photograph of them was taken and then rated on a scale of one to 10. Then the participants filled in a lengthy questionnaire which focused on, in part, their desire to diet and have a slimmer body. Two teams of evaluators then studied these photos and photos of the participants’ spouses.  THE DISTURBING FINDINGS The researchers found that a lot of women who go on crash diets and extreme exercise routines to slim down and tone up are motivated by the fact that their husbands are more attractive. Having an attractive husband may have negative consequences for wives especially if these women are not particularly attractive. On the flip side, men were found to be almost never motivated to change their appearance regardless of how attractive they deem their wives to be. The researchers think that these findings could be key in fixing some of the unhealthy relationships women have with food. “If we understand how women’s relationships affect their decision to diet and the social predictors for developing unhealthy eating behaviours, then we will be more able to help them,” says Tania Reynolds, one of the study authors. One way to help these women, the researchers recommend, is having their spouses reaffirm them, reminding them that they are beautiful. It would also help if the man in her life reminded her that he loves her in her current body type and weight. For the man who finds himself in a relationship with this woman, it also helps to shift the focus from physical appearance to her other numerous positive traits.  