The Teachers Service Commission (TSC) has launched investigations into an incident in which police in Nyandarua County over the weekend arrested 33 students and two teachers who were drinking in a bar. The commission’s head of communication, Mr Kihumba Kamotho, on Monday said they had waded into the case to establish whether the teachers were registered by TSC, before disciplinary action is taken. “Investigations commenced immediately after the matter was brought to the attention of the commission on Monday morning,” he said. The 33 drunk students, two teachers and a school bus driver from Naivasha Mixed High School in Nakuru County spent Friday night at Ol Kalou police station. CANDIDATES The 11 girls and 22 boys, all Form Four candidates, were arrested at around 9pm. Police, led by the area Officer Commanding Police Division (OCPD) Wilson Kosgei, established that they were on a school tour of Nakuru and Nyahururu town before they decided to engage in drinking. According to the police, some girls were almost naked, indecently exposing their bodies, an indication that they may have spent the better part of the day drinking at the local pub. “They were not even aware of the arrest; they sang and danced popular mugithi songs at the police station,” said the area Officer Commanding Police Division (OCPD) Wilson Kosgei. The police also found dozens of assorted alcoholic spirits and soft drinks laced with alcohol. DISODERLY The driver 30, faces charges of being drunk and disorderly and carrying excess passengers. The 33-seater passenger school bus had two excess passengers, whom police said were not insured. Mr Kamotho on Monday stated that due process will be followed and appropriate action taken in dealing with the matter, in accordance with the Code of regulations for teachers. PROTECTION He further indicated that the TSC is committed to welfare and protection of all learners in line with the constitution, the TSC Act and the Code of Regulations for teachers and policy. He wondered why the school administration entrusted the students to the young male teachers without a female one to chaperone the girls. The students were released to the school’s board of management as the two teachers aged 24 and 27 and the driver were held by police awaiting to be charged in court on Tuesday.   The teachers, aged 24 and 27, will be charged in court Monday.