As the campaigns for the Taita Taveta governorship go a notch higher, focus is on two women who are seen as critical in determining who wins the coveted county seat. Ms Mary Ndigha and Ms Majala Mlaghui are the women running side by side with Governor John Mruttu and Wiper party candidate Granton Samboja as the two fight it out for the Taita Taveta County leadership. Ms Ndigha has stuck with Governor Mruttu even after he lost in the ODM primaries. Mr Mruttu will now be defending his seat as an independent candidate. LOYAL DEPUTY In the county, Ms Ndigha is known for her loyalty to Governor Mruttu and as a hard worker who in addition to her responsibilities as a deputy governor has held a ministerial portfolio. She is the county's outgoing executive for Lands and Mining Ms Ndigha, a well-respected leader in the county, is widely expected to bring the women’s vote to Mr Mruttu’s stable. The governor's faith in her is seen as a decisive move to win him the critical women votes. Ms Ndigha has a long history of achievements through her commitment to matters of development and governance and it did not come as a surprise to residents of Taita Taveta when Mr Mruttu retained her as his running mate in next month’s election.   WOMEN RIGHTS She has been an advocate of empowerment of women and equal representation especially in leadership and governance matters. In 2016, through her Lands department, she persuaded Teita Sisal Estate in Mwatate to cede 200 acres to settle Singila-Majengo squatters. The squatters have been living on the piece of land for over 50 years which they claim was grabbed from the community by the sisal estate. The controversial agreement between the county government and the farm has seen Ms Ndigha receive both praise and criticism from a section of the squatters and local leaders. LINK Although the functions of the deputy governor are not clearly set out in the Constitution, she has always remained loyal to her boss. The deputy governor has been the successful link between the county government’s agenda and development across the county. Her agenda has been to implement development projects to change the lives of residents in the spirit of devolution as envisaged in the Constitution. On the other hand, Mr Samboja, a former journalist and businessman has picked the youthful female running mate seen as key to getting him not just the women votes but also those of the youth. Mr Samboja could not have found a better running mate than the youthful Ms Mlaghuli who has been in the forefront in championing for the rights of exploitation of natural resources the county is rich in.   MINING Ms Mlaghui, 35, has been vocal in advocating for the involvement of women and youth in the mining industry. She is on the verge of making history by joining the few youthful deputy governors expected to join the system in the country, after the August 8 elections. The soft-spoken mining entrepreneur and African gemstone lover who was educated in the UK, says she wants to empower artisanal miners for locals to start benefiting from the natural resource. She holds a bachelor’s degree in engineering from the University of Sheffield in England. BALANCE Supporters say she provides a perfect balance in terms of gender and age. Through her work in mining, she has made useful contributions globally and analysts say she will use the influence she commands to empower locals in investing for them to benefit from county resources. She has also curved a niche for herself in her youthful age as an accomplished grassroots mobiliser with a passion for emancipation of womenfolk and youth in the mining industry. As more women in the country endeavour to seek votes in next month’s election, many now believe that women leadership cannot be overlooked as they play a major role in spearheading devolution in Kenya.  