Politicians are beating the drums of war and, unless State agencies act now, there will be violence at the election in a month. The National Cohesion and Integration Commission (NCIC) warning on Tuesday followed those of the European Union election observers and the Kenya National Commission on Human Rights (KNCHR) a day earlier. “There is a serious risk of violence because politicians are beating the drums of war but we can stop this if all of us discharge our responsibilities as required under the law,” NCIC vice-chairperson Irene Wanyoike told a press conference. She was accompanied by commissioners Roba Sharamo and Adan Abdi Mohammed, while the statement was signed by chairman Francis ole Kaparo, who did not attend the briefing. RAISING RED FLAG Ms Wanyoike, however, clarified that raising the red flag did not mean there will automatically be violence, adding that there was still hope if Kenyans refused to be misled by politicians. Among the things NCIC has flagged are widening ethnic and political polarisation and increased use of inflammatory language characterised by inter- and intra-ethnic profiling by the political class and their supporters. This, the commission noted, has resulted in political hooliganism and violence in some areas. It also identified proliferation of hate speech on vernacular radio stations and social media and what it describes as “notable insensitive and sensational reporting by a section of the media”. PREVENT VIOLENCE To prevent election violence, NCIC urged politicians to conduct their campaigns responsibly and refrain from hate speech, ethnic incitement and inflammatory and abusive language and other acts that may lead to polarisation of the country along ethnic lines. It further wants political parties and candidates to focus on issue-based campaigns and peacefully share their political agenda for Kenyans to make a free choice. “The commission notes that issue-based politics will deepen democratisation and enhance long-term stability, peace and development for Kenya,” said Ms Wanyoike. ETHNIC PROFILING NCIC has received about 30 complaints from the public, which Ms Wanyoike said had been investigated and the files handed to the Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP). “Kenyans must desist from ethnic hate and profiling, tone down political intolerance and embrace diverse political views,” said Ms Wanyoike.  The head of the EU Election Observation Mission to Kenya, Ms Marietje Schaake, shared concerns about the likely outbreak of violence raised by local agencies and the police service. “Kenyans are concerned about this,” Ms Schaake said at Sarova Stanley Hotel, Nairobi. “The security and safety of the elections depends on many agencies.” WITNESS CHAOS She did not, however, specify the areas likely to witness chaos but instead said the mission would present its findings soon. The spectre of possible violence could be heightened by Tuesday’s claim by Siaya Senator James Orengo that eight military-trained police officers had been trailing the Opposition’s flagbearer, Mr Raila Odinga of the National Super Alliance (Nasa) coalition, since Monday. He warned that Nasa would hold President Uhuru Kenyatta and Inspector-General of Police Joseph Boinnet responsible “for any lapse on Mr Odinga’s security” and that of his running mate Kalonzo Musyoka and Pentagon member Musalia Mudavadi. GENUINE CONCERN “This is not an idle statement,” said Mr Orengo. “It is our deep and genuine concern about the security of Mr Odinga and other opposition heads.” NCIC has fingered 11 counties where violence could occur. READ: Agency urges elections players to make peace pledge They are Nairobi, Kisumu, Mombasa, Nakuru, Uasin Gishu, Narok, Kericho, Kisii and Homa Bay. Others are Isiolo, Turkana, Bungoma, Kiambu, Kilifi, Lamu, Migori, Baringo and West Pokot. KNCHR has added to the list Kitui, Machakos and Busia. CANDIDATES WARNED On Tuesday, Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) chairman Wafula Chebukati warned candidates who engage in violence that they will be penalised. He revealed that IEBC was addressing complaints from Meru, Migori and Siaya. “The commission will continue to strictly enforce the Electoral Code of Conduct across the country and we demand adherence of all political players,” said Mr Chebukati. In Nairobi, County Police Commander Japheth Koome said many hotspots had been identified but revealed only 10. They are Ziwani, Landhies Road, Globe Cinema roundabout, Dandora, Makadara, Mowlem, Savannah, Mukuru, Sinai, Umoja and all slums. THREAT IS HIGHER “These are the areas the level of threat is higher,” said Mr Koome. “Security has been enhanced in these places and includes deploying additional police officers.” The police chief also sought to reassure residents, saying officers will ensure they are safe. “Where force is required, we shall be governed by the law,” Mr Koome told a planning meeting of police division commanders at Utalii Hotel on maintaining law and order during the elections. A longer list of hotspots had been revealed in a security report. It included Naivasha, Burnt Forest, parts of Uasin Gishu, Nandi-Kisumu boundary, Trans Mara, Mombasa, Kiambu, Kisumu and parts of Lamu. SPECIAL POLICE Mr Koome will also be depending on special police officers to boost the numbers. The officers are expected from the Kenya Wildlife Service, Kenya Prisons Service, Kenya Forest Service and National Youth Service. Mr Boinnet is required by law to gazette special officers before they are deployed. Mr Koome said police will monitor politicians who incite Kenyans. He said: “They have the gadgets to record any statements and we shall be very firm with inciters.” RETURNING OFFICERS At the same time, police spokesman Charles Owino dismissed claims by Nasa that police officers have been recruited as returning officers in the August 8 elections. “A serving officer is not authorised to be in a second employment while still in service save for cases of secondment, which must be authorised by the National Police Service Commission,” said Mr Owino. Meanwhile, Kajiado County Commissioner Harsama Kello has announced the formation of a special security task force aimed at ensuring peaceful polls. The Multi-Agency Task Force draws membership from top officials of all security agencies in the county. INCITING STATEMENTS At a press briefing, Mr Kello assured voters registered in the county of their security and warned politicians against making inciting statements and the youth against being used to cause violence on opponents. Kajiado has been in the news lately following controversial utterances by Mr Odinga on land ownership. On Saturday, local offices of ODM, the party which Mr Odinga leads, were burned by unknown people. Governor David Nkedianye and Kajiado Central MP Elijah Memusi accused Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria of being behind the arson attack. Additional reporting by Joseph Ngunjiri   IEBC says its ready to hold free and fair elections.