Swabri Mohamed, aka Redsan, has been missing from the Kenyan music scene even though he has released hit after hit in the four years that he has been under the radar.Speaking to Nation.co.ke, the Badder than Most hit-maker gave two reasons for his apparent absence: You see, a lot of things have changed around me over the last few years. One is that I got signed by Sony Global, who are managing me right know. If you call me for a gig right now, the management bargaining terms are very high because they have heavily invested in me and that s why most Kenyan promoters are unwilling to pay the price. "Kenyan promoters would rather invest heavily in foreign artistes even when we home-grown entertainers offer the same quality music. It s for this reason that I rarely perform here but get a lot of shows outside the country where the market meets the demand, he said. His young family, he says, also keeps him busy. Although he refused to admit it, it has long been rumoured that he has been married to the beautiful Viverz Mohammed since 2012. His Instagram page also reveals that he is the father of a little boy who seems to be about four years old. Apart from music there is family. I am a family guy. I have a young family. I spend most of the time outside the country (South Africa) and when I am here, love creating more time for my family, being around them. I don t attend parties that am not invited to but all the same, I don t like hanging out, I m an indoor guy and very private. Well, that is a confession, by many definitions, given how tight-lipped about his private affairs Redsan is known to be. Redsan, who has been doing dancehall music for over a decade and a half now, was signed by Sony in 2014 and he is currently lining up his hits collaborations song with Nigerian stars Bruna Boy and Patoranking, South African hip-hop king AKA as well as Ghanaian dancehall star Stonebwoy, all projects courtesy of his current label. email print email print It has long been rumoured that he has been married to the beautiful Viverz Mohammed since 2012.