Eight Kenyan players plying their trade overseas were in action in their respective leagues over the weekend. On Sunday, Guizhou Zhicheng’s Michael Olunga recorded his second goal in the Chinese Super League in the team’s 2-1 defeat to Yanbian Funde at Guiyang Olympic Sports Centre. Han Pengfei’s own goal on the 18th minute gave the visitors the lead before the former Gor Mahia star pulled back with a clinical header off Wang Fan cross. Tian Yinong scored the winner eight minutes to time to leave Guizhou on 15 points from as many rounds. Olunga has made nine league appearances scoring two goals. “All glory to God for the goal although we lost but we focus on the next one,” said Olunga. Elsewhere, Ayub Timbe featured in Beijing Renhe’s 2-1 win over Shanghai Shenxin in a Chinese second tier match on Saturday. Renhe are second on the log with 30 points after 15 games. Sweden Eric Johanna grabbed the headlines by scoring his maiden goal in the Swedish third tier as his Vasalund IF beat Vasteras SK 3-2 on Sunday in Norra group. The former Mathare United man drew the first blood in the eleventh minute before David Zlotnik and Ekin Bulut added the other on the 22nd and 33rd minutes. Filip Tronet and Karwan Safar’s 65th and 67th minute strikes weren’t enough for the visitors. As a result, Vasalund took their tally to 24 points from 12 games. Johanna has appeared in ten games so far starting in four. Winger David King’atua was an unused substitute in Oskarshamns’s 3-3 draw with Mjallyby on Saturday. Granit Stagova, Ghanaian Mamudo Moro and Mirza Halvadzic scored a goal apiece for Mjallby on the 18th, 31st and 85th minutes. The hosts, Oskarshamns had their goals netted through Flip Jagerbrink, Peiman Eliassi and Joakim Lengyel in the 34th, 41st and 55th minutes in that order. Oskarshamns sit fourth on the 16 team table with 21 points from 12 rounds. King’atua, formerly at Thika United and Bandari has ten league appearances in the team he joined in January. Norway In Norway, former Tusker FC shot-stopper Arnold Origi kept a clean sheet in Lillestroem SK’s 2-0 win over Stromgodset in the Norwegian top flight on Saturday. Shalozie Chikozie and Erling Knudtzon’s goals in the 32nd and 42nd minutes were enough for the hosts to reward hundreds of cheerful fans who turned up at Arasen Stadium. Victory saw Lillestroem move to eighth spot on the 16-team league with 20 points from 15 rounds. Origi, 33, has appeared in 12 of the games this season. Zambia Finally in Africa, Jesse Were was on target as Zambian giants Zesco United settled for a 1-1 stalemate with Egyptian side Smouha in the CAF Confederations Cup tie on Friday. In the match staged at Borg El-Arab Stadium, Were broke the deadlock in the 83rd minute after his effort deflected off Smouha defender Yasser Ibrahim. The hosts levelled two minutes to time through Burkinabe forward Banou Diawara. The latter converted from 12 yards after Ahmed Nabil was brought down inside the area. Zesco are second in Group C on seven points, three below Sudanese side Hilal Obayed after five rounds.  