Ladies, stop consuming media which promotes the idea that all your power is contained in your sexuality.I am not sure whether sexual predators in the workplace have become bolder with their advances or if maybe, perhaps, more women are speaking up about their experiences and taking action. What is obvious, though, is that we are hearing about instances of sexual harassment a lot more these days. Judging by recent reports, it would seem that all women working in offices are fair game for all men present and that a lot of men are taking advantage of this. It is all very disturbing. Put down the Power Point presentations and explore the power of pillow talk This is why I was shocked and infuriated when I came across an article in a local daily last weekend, purporting to offer women career advice. The writer s career tip for the day was for women to put down the Power Point presentations and explore the power of pillow talk by sleeping with men who will help further their agenda at the office. She advised women to own their reputation as the office slut, and keep trading sexual favours with bosses higher up the ladder. This is the worst piece of advice I have ever read. We all know that power dynamics play a big part in determining how far a woman will go in her career. Given all the other constraints an ambitious woman faces at work (glass ceilings, perception problems, time constraints for women with families) it is important that she always maintains her personal power. Sleeping with the boss is the fastest way for a woman to lose that power. If success was easy as pillow talk, then women would really be running the world. The instant your male boss or colleague stops seeing you as a professional with many talents and abilities and starts seeing only your sexuality, you lose your power. You put yourself in a little prison where you cannot win.He ceases to take you seriously or see you as a potential candidate for future opportunities. If you are known to be a willing participant in this office affair, you lose the power to call it what it is sexual harassment. If you lose favour with the boss, you may as well kiss your career goodbye. Career success is hard work. If it were as easy as pillow talk, then women would really be running the world. You do not need to sleep with anyone to get ahead in your career. If you are creative and innovative and if you work smart, your efforts will be rewarded. Interact with your male colleagues on a level, professional ground. Finally, stop consuming media that promotes the female form as purely sexual. A woman is a combination of many gifts and talents. She is not limited to her private parts. Don t let anyone put you in a box. email print email print What do you do when self-doubt afflicts you? You write yourself a new story.