Popularly known as Pure Murume, 23-year-old comedian Edwin Kiragu Joseph has a few tricks up his sleeves. In an attempt to be unique, he tells ActScene that he can cry on command, among other talents. This month, he is scheduled to release his web series Kukuru Kakara za Murume on his YouTube channel. I like to cry because, after I ventured into comedy, I had to come up with something different and unique. This is because, when you look at comedy in Kenya, almost everything is the same. People stand and just try and make everyone laugh. No one in Kenya cries on stage. I have been crying since I changed from music to comedy in August 2016. The first time I did a clip was in a matatu and I just assumed that the matatu was being hijacked. The clip went viral on social media and that s when I found my niche. My act is different because African men do not cry; we are not allowed to. I know Deputy President William Ruto cried in public, but I think he wanted to attract publicity. But a real man should not cry. If you see a man crying, that man is not African enough.KUKURU KAKARA Apart from comedy, I am a former radio presenter at a vernacular station called Mwariama FM . It wasn t paying well, so I quit and decided to venture into business. I have a company called Pure Murume Entertainment which deals with electronics and clothes. But comedy still remains my passion. I look up to Eddie Butita and NTV s Dr Kingori as my mentors. When you look at Butita, he is taking Kenyan comedy international. When he is on stage, he kills it. And Kingori has his own show, which is doing well. Butita sometimes gives me advice. I would love one day to be on the same stage with them. In Kenya, it is not easy to get an audition for a big local show. For example, I was invited to audition for Churchill Show but I did not make it through the door. It was disappointing but there was nothing I could do. We have very many people who are doing comedy out there and have their own shows. So to anyone out there, don t look at one place, try and venture out. I aspire to do more than I am doing now. I also hope that I will be able to help raw talent in Kenya, which is massive. Kenya has a lot of talent. I m also hoping the government can look at the entertainment industry and help it. Most of the time, my team and I go to different schools in Nairobi and upcountry and entertain the students. Which is a good platform, but still I m hoping to do more. My new web series Kukuru Kakara za Murume will be one-hour long and in segments. It will be available on social media. Every week I will be uploading a five-minute clip to try and entertain everyone. email print email print