Winning gold at the IAAF World Under-Championship is almost certain to be a stepping stone to fame and fortune in the sport. And no one would know this better than Kenya’s representatives in Sunday’s 3,000m boys’s final Edward Zakayo and Stanley Mburu. “I really want to continue winning and secure a good manager and contract to show my mother that sports, too, can pay our bills,” said Zakayo. He said he would use proceeds from athletics to pay his school fee at Kapsait Secondary School in Elgeyo Marakwet where he is in Form One. “I want to lift my mother from poverty as well as fund for my own education,” explained Zakayo, who wants to study sports science. Mburu wants to follow in the footsteps of the first Kenyan to win a world marathon title Douglas Wakiihuri and two times world marathon champion Catherine Ndereba among other inspiring athletes from Central Kenya region. “Athletics can be a well-paying job and one can make a livelihood from it,” said Mburu. The Kenyan duo said they are ready for yet another clash with their Ethiopian rivals. “Athletics is back home and for sure we must do something good especially this being the last world youth competition,” said Zakayo, who goes into the race with the best time of 7:53.8. “We are ready for the final and for sure we can deliver a 1-2 finish with good team work,” said Mburu. The duo are out to uphold Kenya’s dominance over the distance in an event where Pius Muli won the inaugural title in 1999. Kenya went on to win six out of the nine titles. The latest to win is Richard Kimunyan, who led compatriot Davis Kiplangat to a 1-2 finish at the 2015 Championships in Cali, Colombia. Other Kenyan athletes to win the event are Augustine Choge (2003), Daniel Salel (2007), William Sitonik (2011) and Isaiah Kiplangat (2009). Ethiopia has won it thrice, locking out other countries. The Kenyans will be seeking to slay Ethiopian rivals led by World Under-20 Champion Selemon Barega and Melkesha Nengesa. The 17-year-old Barega notched up three victories in international cross-country races over the winter before finishing fifth in the Under-20 race at the World Cross Country Championships Kampala in March. Eritreans Bereket Tedros and Bereket Michael are the other athletes to watch alongside Oscar Chelimo of Uganda and France’s Etienne Daguinos.   It is now eight years since Kenya won the girls’ 800m title.