President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto took their campaigns to three counties in Nyanza and Rift Valley regions on Friday where they urged voters to come out in large numbers on August 8 and give Jubilee an overwhelming victory. They also defended the security organs against accusations by Nasa that they were being prepared to rig the polls in favour of Jubilee Party. “We are telling Mr Odinga and his team to stop dragging our highly respected and disciplined security forces including the Kenya Defence Forces and Kenya Police into petty politics,” the President said in Kapsabet. FALSEHOODThe President and his deputy said the Jubilee administration had delivered its pledges in the four and half years they have been in power and laid the country’s economic and industrialisation foundation. Speaking at the Kapsabet showground, President Kenyatta and Mr Ruto accused the opposition of fabricating all manner of reasons to ensure that the General Election does not take place. UNITY GOVERNMENT The Jubilee leadership said that next month’s elections would take place whether Nasa participates or not, with the President accusing Nasa leader Raila Odinga of only being interested in forming a coalition government. “Now they are telling us the security organs are interfering with elections," the President told the rally. “I want you to tell Mr Odinga: You are a senior politician of this country and you want to drag the security people who are dedicated to serving this country into your petty politics? Shame on you," Mr Kenyatta added. RIGGING Nasa flagbearer Raila Odinga and his running mate Kalonzo Musyoka on Friday claimed that the Jubilee administration had a hatched a plot to use the military to rig the elections. Mr Ruto dismissed the threat to postpone the General Election, saying the opposition had a choice to participate or remain at home. In Nyamira and Migori counties, the President announced the creation of new administrative units and promised more goodies for the region should he be re-elected in the August polls. TARMACThe President, who toured Kuria in Migori, announced the creation of two new districts in the area, Mabera and Ntimaru, following the request of local leaders. “District Commissioners will report to the new sub-counties by next week,” the Head of State said at the Kehancha grounds. Mr Kenyatta also announced plans to tarmac the Kehancha–Ntimaru highway if he is re-elected. ACHIEVEMENTThe President found himself trapped in local politics when supporters of Dr Wilfred Machage and Kuria West MP Mathias Robi jeered each other. The President said that Kenya had attained major strides under his leadership. In Nyamira, he said his government had achieved a lot in the past four years than any other administration had done. MATIANG'IHe further defended acting Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i against accusations by Nasa leaders on alleged plans to rig the August polls. “I put Mr Matiang’i in charge of Internal Security because of his sterling performance in Education ministry where he ensured there was not cheating in national exams last year,” President Kenyatta said. The President however did not address the issue of internally displaced persons who have not been compensated despite giving out Sh470 million to be distributed to them. Before you vote: The truth about integrated IDPs The IDPs who have not been paid have are camping at Nyamira’s Uhuru garden, saying they will only move out once they are paid. Mr Ruto told Nasa leaders to stop rushing to courts if they have no political support.   Raila Odinga claims Jubilee in plot to use the military and extra ballots to rig poll.