Uasin Gishu independent gubernatorial candidate Bundotich Zedekiah Kiprop Buzeki has been summoned by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) after he was accused by a voter of using President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President portraits in his campaign materials. He will appear before the commission on Thursday and will be joined by Kisumu Governor Jack Ranguma who is facing a similar charge of using Orange Democratic Movement colours in his campaigns. ALLEGATIONS They are among 15 aspirants set to face the electoral body for various allegations around the breach of the electoral code. Mr Buzeki is expected to appear before the IEBC Code of Conduct Enforcement Committee chaired by Chairman Wafula Chebukati at 9am to face the accusations submitted by a Peter Kibet Chepkonga, a resident of Uasin Gishu. “Zedekiah Kiprop Bundotich as an independent candidate for the gubernatorial seat for Uasin Gishu County in the forthcoming General Election 2017, you are displaying your campaign posters and banners bearing the Jubilee Party slogan and symbol. You are also using the photographs of the Jubilee Party presidential candidate and his running mate which are displayed in your campaign materials,” said the IEBC’s charge sheet. The candidate lost to Governor Jackson Mandago in the Jubilee primaries held last April although he contested the results but his case was dismissed by the party’s tribunal. INDEPENDENT Following the loss, he quit the party and vied for the same seat as an independent candidate. The two candidates have been at loggerheads and their supporters often clash in Eldoret town. Three people were seriously injured just last week when the two groups clashed yet again. The DP asked Mr Buzeki to step down for Mr Mandago last month but his pleas were dismissed by the candidate who said he would press on until the elections saying voters would decide who to vote for on August 8. Mr Ranguma has been accused by Aloice Ager. GUILTY Others set to appear before the commission on Thursday to answer allegations on breach of the Electoral Code are Ruaraka MP Tom Kajwang who has been accused by his opponent Nominated Senator Elizabeth Ongoro of perpetrating violent acts against her, Imenti Central MP Gideon MP, Mr Simon Ngugi Muigai who is running for Subukia MP, Mr John Kiragu Chege (Limuru) and John Mbugua Honest (Bahati). So far, IEBC has fined politicians, mostly independent candidates, found guilty of violating the code a total of Sh4.2 million. Last Thursday, the IEBC fined 10 politicians a total of Sh2 million for using pictures of either President Uhuru Kenyatta or his main challenger Raila Odinga in their campaign posters.  