The former Kenyatta University Students Association (KUSA) leader Maryann Njambi Mugo is fired up.The 33-year old Njambi is eager to claim the Molo Parliamentary seat in Nakuru County, in next month s General Election, and make history, while at it.And as the election date inches closer, Ms Njambi, a former secretary general of KUSA who is vying on a Kanu ticket, believes that she is the voters favourite and all eyes will be on her.But it will not be a walk in the park for the Bachelor of Commerce (Marketing option) degree holder, as she is in the race with another youthful candidate Francis Kuria Kimani, popularly known as KK, the Jubilee Party candidate for the seat. CAUSING JITTERSThere is also incumbent Jacob Macharia for the youthful Kanu candidate to worry about, who returned to the race as an independent candidate after he lost in the Jubilee Party primaries.Ms Njambi is already causing jitters at the Jubilee camp and emissaries have been sent through the council of elders to prevail upon her to step down in favor of the Jubilee candidate.Interestingly both Ms Njambi, Mr Macharia and Mr Kimani are former students of KU and this promises to be a tough duel of KU alumni.Ms Njambi who is making her first attempt at elective politics, considers herself favorite going into the race as she hopes the two other candidates who are both allied to Jubilee would split their votes.She says she is not worried by about the challenge the two opponents are likely to pose to her bid. I am determined to claim the seat. It would be great if I become the first woman MP for Molo and the first youth to capture the seat that has been dominated by seasoned politicians, said Ms Njambi I am certain all eyes will be on me as the favourite since I am the only woman candidate in the race who promises to revolutionize the way Molo is governed. Ms Njambi who was mentored by National Democratic Instituter (NDI) said she has what it takes to be the next Molo MP.STUDENT LEADERShe said the leadership and political skills she horned as a student leader and later as the national deputy treasurer of Chama Cha Uzalendo has sharpened her to handle any public affairs matte. I have learnt a lot about political parties and leadership and given an opportunity I will take Molo constituency to the next level of development, said Ms Njambi. I know the tricks and tactics which my opponents are applying and I want to tell them they should be prepared for the mother of all political battles that have ever been witnessed in Molo, said Ms Njambi.She added: I fear no one but God will count on me and I urge the residents of Molo not to make a second mistake and vote a leader who would transform and uplift their standards of living. Ms Njambi is a vibrant and go getter and was once a hawker selling movies and clothes at Imenti House in Nairobi when she was still a student leader at KU. I believe in hard work and that is why at the age of 24 I managed to buy my own car and that is the spirit I want to inculcate in the youths in Molo that they too can scale the heights of success, she said.She said top on her wish list is the revival of the ailing pyrethrum sector, potato farming, infrastructure, water and youth and women empowerment. I grew up in Molo and went to school in Molo and it is sad to see poverty hovering on the heads of poor farmers as they have abandoned pyrethrum farming because of non-payments of their dues and lack of planting materials, said Ms Njambi.She said it is ironical that the country is facing a serious food shortage while Molo is regarded as a food basket. Agriculture is the mainstay of Molo and since agriculture is a devolved unit I will collaborate with the county government to give it boost by involving the youths, she added.TRADE EXPERTAs a trade expert who worked with multinational companies such as Coca cola, she says she will use the experience to revive the Jua Kali sector to create employment for the youths and fight the runaway poverty. This is the only solution to end the kind of desperation, poverty and frustration that I see in young people in Molo. Ms Njambi says that education will also be given top priority particularly the marginalized areas such as Marioshoni. Today I can fight for any cause because of the education I got and it is sad that at least 12 primary schools and some secondary schools in Marioshoni are made of mud and timber. She said she is disturbed by the rising cases of insecurity which has led to increased cases of rape and drug addiction amongst the youths. I m allergic to child abuse and rape of innocent women and girls and I will make sure the Nyumba Kumi initiative is revived by working closely with the security apparatus, she added. email print email print