The electoral commission on Friday dismissed claims by Thirdway Alliance of Kenya presidential candidate Ekuru Aukot on the integrity of the printing of presidential ballot papers, maintaining the process is above board.Independent, Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) chairman Wafula Chebukati said Dr Aukot, whose agent, Mr Bill Kagai, is part of the delegation in Dubai monitoring the printing and packaging of ballot papers, was not genuine in his claims.LACKING MERIT Dr Aukot said his agent was not able to establish how many presidential ballot papers were printed before the visit. The issues raised by the Thirdway presidential candidate do not have any merit. "There was no monkey business in the printing of the presidential ballot papers as all stakeholders were duly informed, including an agent of Dr Aukot, Mr Chebukati said. The commission boss explained they had instructed the Dubai based printing firm Al Ghurair to start printing the ballot papers after the Appellate Court revised a High Court order that had initially halted the process. But at a press briefing yesterday, Dr Aukot said none of the members in the team witnessed the actual printing and packaging of the ballot papers, therefore raising questions about the integrity of the process. The General Manager of Al Ghurair Printing and Publishing Lakshmanan Ganapathy said the firm had done 95 per cent of the printing work. Mr Ganapathy noted the IEBC issued instructions for the printing to begin. Dr Aukot said no one in the delegation including his agent Mr Kagai could tell how many pallets and how many ballot papers were in each pallet. At the very minimum, the due diligence team should count and confirm the exact number of ballot papers printed, the number of results forms, serial numbers for each constituency and a physical count of the number of pallets being exported to Nairobi from Al Ghurair Printing and Publishing LLC, he said. He went on: In total there should have been at least 300 pallets ready for export. The purpose of this mission was to count the ballot papers and not to see the impressive technology. He added IEBC and Al Ghurair failed to confirm whether there was going to be a tracking system to monitor the movement of the ballot papers from Dubai to constituencies. email print email print Aukot's representative apologises for giving wrong information to his bosses.