He is gone, and his departure has been the literary event of this fortnight. I will not pretend to narrate Abiola Irele s life story, firstly because it has been eloquently told by several of my more competent colleagues. Secondly, I did not know him personally, and I have no recollection of an-up close encounter with him.Indeed, I imagined for a while that I had met him at the 1974 Association of Commonwealth Language and Literature Studies (ACLALS) Conference, which we held at Makerere under the puzzled glare of Idi Amin. But then I realised I was probably confusing him with Imeh Ikiddeh, another dazzling Nigerian academic, whom one of our aspiring scholarly sisters wanted to follow to the ends of the world. Maybe Bakoki Chris Wanjala can jog my memory about some of these events.But our sister was not the only one star-struck at that conference. Uganda, under the demented military dictatorship, was getting increasingly isolated from the rest of the world. So, having among us on the Hill the likes of Chinua Achebe, Nuruddin Farah, Scottish Africanist Alastair Niven and the Indian literary guru and activist C.D. Narasimhaiah from Mysore was like an intoxicating dream.Anyway, I would like to refer on what Abiola Irele did, as a literary practitioner or professional, and its relevance to us in the field of reading and writing. I will allude to Abiola s work to illustrate what I understand as literary practice and its significance to society. The literary profession comprises roughly four interrelated practices, with several sub-categories under each of them. The first practice is composition or creativity, and the second is criticism or evaluation. Documentation or literary history is the third practice while the fourth is literary theory.INSEPARABLY LINKEDIn other words, what happens in the literary enterprise is that some people compose stories, poems or dramas and others, the critics systematically respond to them, analysing them and suggesting why they strike us as they do. The patient documentarist archives and curates the products of both the composers and the critics, endeavouring to establish significant patterns among them, across both time and place. At the other end, the literary theorist tries to distil from the accumulated experiences of the creator, the critic and the historian the fundamental principles of literature: what it is, what it does, how it works and how and why it matters.As I said above, these operations are inseparably linked. My students remember that I illustrate this concept with a circular diagram. On this I place the activities of creation, criticism, history and theory, with arrows pointing forwards and backwards to suggest the constant to-and-fro relationships among them.Starting with the literary historians, we have already observed that it is from their treasury that theorists deduce their hypotheses and theories. But one must also remember that literary work is intrinsically a comparative activity. Works of literature are judged in comparison with other works of literature and other responses to them, what we called accumulated experience. If a person has read only one book and he or she claims that it is the best book ever written, his or her credibility is, at best, questionable!But even creative writers and critics depend on the theorists in their work. Literary theories imply the expectations that we make of a poem, novel, play or oral performance. The creative writer tries to model his or her work around these expectations, just as the critic assesses the work against the same expectations.Even more obviously, the critic cannot operate unless and until he or she receives the creative work from the composer or author. But equally importantly, the composer, the novelist, the dramatist or the poet, should not regard his or her work complete until he or she receives an intelligent and informed response to it. Creativity is communication and it is not complete without palpable feedback. Our many upcoming poets and other artists would do well to note this point. The narcissistic tendency of our writers to ignore or be hostile to criticism may be resulting in the striking growth in the quantity of our literature matched by the dismal fall in the quality of our works.APTLY PUT THE CASEThe late Ugandan dramatist, Robert Serumaga, put the case aptly when he said that creative activity without a corresponding critical response is like a hen brooding over unfertilised eggs. No matter how long it sits over those eggs, they will never hatch. This warning goes as much for the creators as for the critics. The dubious quality of a lot of our new writing is as much due to the complacency of many of our artists as to the lack of serious and articulate response from our critics. Irele was primarily known as a critic, probably the most suspect role in literary operations. Critics, however, are not mere fault finders or praise-singers. Rather, they are our representatives and guides as readers, consumers of literature. When most of us read literary works, we respond from the gut , spontaneously exclaiming, This is fantastic, superb, unputdownable or Lousy, boring, couldn t get over the first two pages. But the professional critic, such as Irele, goes, and takes us, further than this. He interprets the texts systematically by articulating, in specific terms of subject matter, theme, structure and style, why the text affects us as it does. This is the critic s professional competence, the precise, scientific ability to clarify and illuminate the text.It is what, in my own formulations, I have called textology in the sense of the broad field of knowledge and textechnics or textectics in terms of the practical mechanics, or tools, of analysing the text. The terms may not be in the Oxford English Dictionary yet, but never mind. OUP will eventually see the light, since they are my publishers too. Meanwhile, we feel sorry for those who think that studying Literature is about reciting Senghor or Shakespeare. It is actually about saving the text, as Geoffrey Hartman puts it. Prof Bukenya is one of the leading scholars of English and Literature in East Africa. [email&#160;protected] email print email print He is gone, and his departure has been the literary event of this fortnight.