nce a person tastes power, it goes into the head and lives in the mind throughout life. That was Godfrey Gitahi Kariuki, a former powerful Moi minister who died last week. He rose from a little known Kanu youth winger to be Laikipia West MP at only 25 to a colossus, then fell and rose again. GG lived in the past. Whenever he went to a public place, hotel, rally or just a meeting, he would loudly wonder why police officers were not saluting him. Whenever Parliament doors opened and GG walked in the Gang Way to the restaurant, MPs stood. INSTANT DISMISSAL The only other politicians MPs stood for were Charles Njonjo and Nicholas Biwott. So powerful were they that crossing their path would be instant dismissal from a post or expulsion from Kanu, the country’s only political party. It started in 1978 when Kenya’s second President Daniel arap Moi ascended to power after the death Mzee Jomo Kenyatta. GG and Attorney-General Njonjo became so powerful that top civil servants spoke to them on fixed phone lines while standing and saluting. The two were riding to functions in the presidential limousine. If a person alights with the President from a limousine, the generals and police commanders will salute. PERMANENT HALLUCINATION It elevates the ego to permanent hallucination similar to that of Saddam Hussein who emerged from a sewer after his capture and introduced himself: “I am the President of Iraq, let us negotiate”. Commissioners of police feared rather than respected GG. A call from GG was deemed to be a command from State House. The civil servant would carry out orders downward on the spot; and, the junior public officials would be reminded on phone — remember it is from GG — taken to mean from the President. The first appointment Moi gave GG was Minister for Internal Security and Provincial Administration – the most powerful cabinet post in more than half century. Ben Gethi, the Commissioner of Police would every morning drive to GG’s house in Nairobi or wait his call for orders. SCANDALOUS DELIENATION In 1982, Mr Moi transferred GG to the Lands and Settlement Ministry, held by Jackson Angaine since independence. It is here that GG presided over the most scandalous delineation of land belonging to the Agricultural Development Corporation. READ: G G Kariuki refused to quit politics Thousands of acres of ADC land across the country had been set aside to grow food crops and keep animals for meat. He gave chunks to “who’s who” in the military, civil service and cronies of the system in order to buy Mr Moi’s loyalty. VERY INFLUENTIAL Moi switched him to Lands was because GG had thorough knowledge of the ministry and was very influential. President Kenyatta appointed GG the assistant Minister for Lands and Settlement in 1972. A handwritten note from GG specifying the acreage of public land addressed to the Commissioner of Lands was title deed. GG fell from power following the Njonjo “traitor” debate. Moi accused Njonjo of plotting with a foreign power to topple the government, which a commission of inquiry absolved the former attorney general. Moi called a snap General Election in 1983. NJONJO ASSOCIATES Many politicians perceived to be Njonjo associates, including Kanu cockerel Joseph Kamotho,  fell in that election and were expelled from the ruling party. GG retreated to business, farming and Tae Kwondo in Laikipia. Kamotho and others were first to return to the Kanu party fold and then helped GG and others. GG has documented his political life, frustrations, the highs and lows in his autobiography Illusion of Power: Fifty Years in Politics, which is a thriller. Kariuki, 79, will be most remembered in Kenya’s annals as a politician who combined politics and the game of Tae Kwondo with an admirable legacy. May his soul rest in peace.   Laikipia senator had been ailing for the past 18 months, his family says.