Q: I am married with two children, and my main problem is our sex life. I used to enjoy intimate times with my husband in the early years, but not any more. He presses me about it and he gets unhappy about my refusal. I’m wondering why sex is important to him. Can’t we just stay like that without sex and still be happy? Sometimes I sleep in another bedroom just to avoid getting intimate. I don’t love sex anymore. What do I do? Please advise. A: Sex is one of the bonds of marriage. You seem to have resigned yourself to passionless relationship devoid of true intimacy. As such, it is imperative you take your sex life off the back burner and pay attention to it. It is sad that you think you can have a great relationship with your husband without sex – and that you think he should agree to it. Your marriage survival depends on how solid your sex life is. Do you remember how wonderful it felt back when you and your husband would get intimate? Didn’t it feel great? Don’t you want that feeling back? So you need to ask yourself what happened to your passion, and what caused this to change in you. You say you feel like your husband is putting pressure on you to have sex; it is entirely possible that it is the pressure you are reacting adversely to, and not to the thought of being intimate with him. You may also wonder if you will ever feel the same way about being sexual as you once did. However please know that it is possible for both of you to reignite the fire; what was once there is not lost forever. I suggest that you take charge of changing things for your sex life to work better. You may start by letting your husband know that you understand why he has been unhappy with your love life and that you are going to do something about it. Explore all the solutions including medical check ups. Spend some romantic time together away from the kids. Communicate with him about your feelings, hopes and dreams – a great conversation in which ego is put to the side is a very effective way to connect with your partner and stimulate feelings of intimacy. You also consider scheduling an appointment for you and your partner with a marriage therapist. Wishing you a fulfilling sexual marriage.   How can I stop sabotaging my relationships?