Hello Mr Kitoto,I have been in a relationship with a woman for two years now and I have enjoyed everything about her and truly love her. The only issue is that, after I relocated to Nairobi two months ago to greener pastures, we initially had good communication but after a few weeks she started acting weird.She shows no interest in chatting or even calling me and when I call her, she is always unhappy and moody and even hangs up on me, which she never used to do before. In addition, she no longer calls me sweetheart. She has turned down any suggestion for us to meet and discuss how we can rekindle our love. I have a feeling she no longer loves me and this is stressing me because I have always dreamt of spending my future with her. We no longer talk like we used to. I fear I might have lost her and I find this very unsettling. What should I do? Please advise.Steve Hi,Long-distance relationships suffer as a result of many factors: First, under-communication can create distance, which results in anxiety and fear. What I deduce is that there is something hindering true and honest disclosure.Second, being together creates intimacy and assures the two people involved of a secure relationship. Suspicion and mistrust have a way of escalating where there is under-communication and the couple lives apart.Third, distance leaves a vacuum. Whenever a vacuum is created, there will always be a fight for it to be filled. In most long-distance relationships, the temptation to fill their idle moments with new habits is great among the partners. Such avenues can open the door to infidelity. Please note that I am not suggesting that she is seeing someone else.Finally, unexplained silence in a long-distance relationship could suggest many things. First is that a there is a problem; I guess this is where you two are at. I suggest that you make an effort to meet face-to-face and resolve the issue. Ask her these questions directly. You might discover that there is nothing to worry about or discover that you need to move on. email print email print