If I had money, I would have joined many other Kenyans who are taking IEBC to court for one reason or another. In fact, I now believe that the IEBC, in its current format, is not only ready, but also not qualified to run the General Election on August 8. When the judges recently questioned their procurement, I was among those who doubted the court and believed that IEBC could hold very free and fair elections.Earlier, when judges had ruled that elections results at the polling station are final, I joined the IEBC in opposing this, for being experienced in matter elections, I was quite aware that even for parliamentary elections, rogue election official could tamper with the results at the polling station, and was is important to have a window for such error to be corrected.Let me admit it, I made this position clear at Cosmas Bar in the presence of our returning officer, clearly believing that if he heard me articulate an official IEBC position, it would increase my chances of getting an IEBC job. He really supported me, saying that the court had erred in their ruling.I, at the time, totally believed in IEBC and all its officials. I had no doubt they would handle the recruitment of officials in an open, credible, free and fair manner. I was wrong. Given the way it has handled the recruitment of electoral officials this side of the Sahara, it is clear there are people who do not mean well for this country.It all started last month when they advertised for positions of polling clerks, deputy presiding officers and presiding officers among others. Anyone who has even the most basic knowledge of happenings in Mwisho wa Lami and its environs will admit that if there is person who IEBC can rely on to ensure a peaceful, credible, free and fair elections in Mwisho wa Lami, it is yours truly.LUCRATIVE POSITIONNo-one comes close to me when it comes to experience, expertise, charisma, technical know-how, demographic knowledge, among other qualities!If IEBC were serious about credible elections in Mwisho wa Lami, they wouldn t need even to advertise for such positions. They should just have appointed me and asked me to hire other people to work with me.But to my shock, IEBC, in its wisdom that the court has on many occasions differed with, had advertised for positions, without even consulting me, something I believe was an oversight. I thought about protesting on this. I was not going to apply and I saw no need to apply for a job that I was overqualified for. If anything, it was quite possible that I was more qualified than the people who would interview me. It has happened before with disastrous consequences. There was no doubt that on this matter, IEBC should have single sourced for me.I initially did not want to apply, I wanted to go and demonstrate at IEBC offices until I am given the job but after talking to my brother Pius, he advised me to apply. I was not going to apply for poling clerk or deputy presiding officer. I wasn t even going to go for presiding officer. I was above small jobs.I decided to go for a new but lucrative position: Support elections trainer. This was like an assistant deputy returning officers. It was quite some good money. The trip to Mombasa would finally happen and there would be some change to move my house a little bit. I took time to pen a letter that would give me the job even without an interview. It read:Dear Sir,It must be an honour reading my distinguished application for placement as a presiding officer in the forthcoming General Election. Given my excess qualifications, I need not apply but I have decided to humble myself so that there are no complaints by sour losers. It must be in your records how I am more than well-equipped for the placement; with unrivalled experience and enviable knowledge in electoral, referendal and censal matters.I am a renowned scholar from Kenyatta University, and a distinguished alumnus of Kilimambogo TTC. I instruct at a Primary school within this purlieu, where I hold the distinguished position of deputy headmistress.My Folk Song and Set piece was the best in the divisional music festivals, while last term, my volleyball team emerged the best during zonals a clear testimony to my abilities.I am happily married, to Fiolina, the most beautiful woman and together we are looking forward to get a baby soon, just like the country is expectant with election fever. Furthermore, I am the only professionals in Mwisho wa Lami with a laptop, which I believe can be used as back up should your main systems fail.Affixed herein is my r sum and carbon copies of not only my academic certificates, but also a dozen testimonials attesting my multiple achievements. You will also find my myriad academic and CAT papers that I penned at the pedagogical Kenyatta University, most of which I passed with flying colours, a clear sign of why this is clearly my job. I thirstily await your esteemed office s invitation for an interrogation session and subsequent confirmation to the aforementioned position.Yours expectantly,Mwalimu Andrew,GHC, CRE, Insha, Facebook.LONG WAITI delivered this letter to the IEBC office and started waiting to be called for an interview. I waited, waited and waited. I started hearing about people being called for interviews. I was not worried, for I knew they would soon call me. Interviews were conducted for almost all the positions. No-one talked to me but still I was not worried. Those being communicated to are the ones who went for interviews, I told Kuya, who bragged to me once he was appointed as deputy presiding officer. I can t do these small jobs, I inisted.But last week, I heard that all successful officials were given dates for training. I was shocked. Last week I went to the IEBC offices and was shocked to learn that my application was unsuccessful. So was the application of Kizito and another teacher with whom we met Mr Simba, an MP aspirant.If you remember we had vowed to ensure Simba does not win. We did not need a calculator to know that it was the work of Simba. There had been rumours that Simba had been seen with the returning officer but this was the clearest confirmation. Our protests to the county returning officer did not bear fruit.Last week, we wrote to the IEBC chairman to intervene. If there is no response by end of day tomorrow, we will move to court to have the elections postponed. Without me as an election official, we cannot expect credible, free and fair elections in Mwisho wa Lami. email print email print