Nicholas Biwott’s last mission on this planet appeared to have been to bring the Kalenjin sub tribes together. Having enjoyed unquestioned authority during retired President Daniel Moi’s era, the politician’s humiliation in 2007 and 2013 elections seemed to have finally sent him to another course: Kalenjin unity. In 2007, he was defeated by a political novice, Jackson Kiptanui, in the race for Keiyo South MP who was vying on an Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) ticket. Five years later, he was handed a similar defeat, a final blow to his political career by yet another newcomer, lawyer Kipchumba Murkomen, who beat him in the Elgeyo-Marakwet senatorial race. He kept a low profile from that day and whenever he appeared in public, his key points were mostly on the unity of the Kalenjin sub tribes; Kipsigis, Nandi, Tugen, Marakwet, Keiyo, Sabaot, Pokot and Terik. COME DOWN This call was clearer in Bomet in May 2015 when President Uhuru Kenyatta visited the region alongside his deputy William Ruto. Mr Biwott spoke at length on the need for unity among the Kalenjin community, even daring those of contrary opinion to challenge him there. “Who among you agree that as Kalenjin people we should hold our hands and keep our unity and peace? Who’s Kalenjin’s cornerstone now, I want all of you to tell me, isn’t it (William) arap Ruto? “If we don’t support him, the (Kalenjin) house will come down,” said the former powerful minister who used the occasion to publicly endorse DP Ruto, who was facing a serious onslaught from namesake, Governor Isaac Ruto. The endorsement was significant, considering that the DP was behind the ODM wave in the Rift Valley that swept aside Mr Biwott in 2007. SUPREMACY BATTLES “As Kalenjins, when we have issues we sit down and talk about them. How many of you here agree that we have to sit down and solve our issues? Put up your hands so that everyone can see you agree with this,” he said as he ended the speech. The Kalenjin community has been hit by supremacy battles since 2013 pitting three leaders; DP William Ruto, Baringo Senator Gideon Moi and Bomet Governor Ruto. The DP, a Nandi, has often been accused by Mr Moi, a Tugen and Mr Ruto, a Kipsigis, of insulting them for speaking their minds although it is known that the two have always aspired to challenge the deputy’s claim that he should be respected having ascended to the second topmost office in the land. During the burial for another Kanu-era politician early this year, Mark Too, Mr Biwott, who served in various portfolios during President Moi’s tenure between 1978 and 2002, was more outright saying that Kalenjins were interested in supporting one of their own assuring the deputy president of the community’s backing. 2022 PRESIDENCY “Kalenjins are not interested in many things. When they have installed someone as their leader they fully support him. They were behind Moi for many years,” he said. Despite Mr Biwott’s quest for unity in the last three years, the trio have since fallen out. The governor is supporting the opposition National Super Alliance (Nasa) led by Raila Odinga seeking to oust the Jubilee Party from power. Although Mr Moi is supporting President Kenyatta’s re-election this year, he has indicated that he will be going for the seat in 2022 against the wishes of the DP.   Biwott staged a coup against Uhuru Kenyatta in 2006 and installed himself as Kanu chairman.