She surprised many when she announced her decision to "downgrade" from a senator to a member of the county assembly. But that has not deterred nominated Senator Godliver Omondi from leaving what is perceived to be a glamorous parliamentary seat, to fight for a "less prestigious" one. DISABILITYSenator Omondi, who represents people with disabilities, has opted to battle it out for the Kholera ward seat in Matungu constituency, Kakamega County. The 44-year-old mother of three, who is contesting on the Amani National Congress (ANC) ticket, says despite her disability, she has remained focused and committed to her duties in the Senate for the last four and half years. CAMPAIGNSSenator Omondi says she has opted to return home to serve her community. Ms Omondi adds that her opponents have been deriding her because of her disability, but she remains unfazed. LEGISLATION In the Senate, she has actively been involved in pushing for implementation of policies and legislation touching on the rights of vulnerable groups including women and children. "My stint at the Senate has given me useful lessons in my political career and informed my decision to contest [for] the Kholera ward seat. "My passion is to work closely with rural communities and plan with them a meaningful development agenda that will have an impact on their livelihoods," Ms Omondi adds. SUED She joined the Senate in 2014 after successfully contesting - in court - the nomination of ODM's Harold Kipchumba, arguing it was done irregularly. Mr Kipchumba is also living with disability. READ: Meet Harold Kipchumba: UN in Kenya Award winner NOMINATIONSMs Omondi is a long-serving chairperson of the United Disabled Person of Kenya. The politician, who has been a close ally of ODM leader Raila Odinga, decamped the Orange party to ANC after she failed to clinch the ticket in the disputed party nominations. ANC is being led by Mr Musalia Mudavadi. PRIVILEGEShe is described as aggressive and bold, but her mettle will be tested on August 8 when she will contest against six candidates including incumbent Abel Mutimba of Ford Kenya, Karim Tingili of ODM and Pamela Khaindi of Jubilee Party. She decried that funds allocated to the county by the national government has not alleviated the lives of the residents. "For me, it is not about the money, the privileges or the influence that go with [the] position of a nominated senator that I’m interested in. "I would rather serve my community at the ward level than spend most of my time away at the Senate in Nairobi," she said after being cleared by the electoral agency. She said she will be accountable, cautioning the residents against falling for empty promises.  