Do you fantasise about someone else when getting intimate with your partner? Have you every fantasised about cheating on your partner? You are not alone. Dr. Seth Meyers, a psychologist and author of Love Prescription, you do this because no one person can meet every sexual or romantic need of the other. However, confessing them to your partner may not be taken lightly. This is because relationships tend to have no room for fantasies and instead exert pressure for sexual attraction to be confined to one person. WHY AND HOW THEY HAPPEN Dr. Chris Hart, a psychologist based in Nairobi and the author of Single & Searching, says that almost everyone fantasises during sex. Those who fantasise the most, he says, will often have the most fun in bed. “These fantasies intensify arousal and mostly involve making love to a past, present, or imaginary partner. They’re also used to imagine really way-out ideas without the risk of rejection,” he says. When you’re with your partner, says Dr. Hart, you will be more likely to fantasise about someone else. When your partner isn’t around, you will be more likely to fantasise about them. Additionally, according to Ken Munyua, a Nairobi-based psychologist, fantasies might be common where the woman’s needs aren’t met or where the woman has been listening to her friends describe how their men treat them or are awesome in bed. Couples who have been together for a long time will also use fantasies to keep the flame alive. “This is natural. What is unnatural is to have such a fantasy while you’re in the act with your partner on a regular basis,” says Meyers. THE FLIP SIDE That said, untamed sexual fantasies could turn into emotional cheating. This may include regular and conscious instances where your thoughts are totally diverted to another man when having sex with your main partner. “If (the person) who is fantasising is having sex with the other person in her mind while in bed with her partner, this becomes a form of cheating,” says Munyua. DON’T FIGHT YOUR FANTASIES Although it is likely that you feel guilty about your fantasies, they are a means through which to have and enjoy better intimacy with your partner. Instead of fighting them off, explore what they are saying about your sexual needs. “If you’re constantly fantasising about the same man, what qualities does he have that you feel your partner lacks? Is there something about your partner’s appearance, mannerisms or behaviour that is driving you away mentally?” poses Susan Krauss, the author of The Search for Fulfillment. She notes that your response to such queries will offer you insights that you can then share with your partner. “This doesn’t require you to table your fantasies before him, but rather discuss what they might represent,” she cautions. Nonetheless, you should not give yourself the green light to overly fantasise. “This is the gate-pass to fantasising regularly and it becomes a way to cope with feelings about your relationship,” says Meyers. “You may be angry or bored with your partner, and your fantasy turns into your defense against being intimate and enjoying intimacy with him.”     Getting dumped during Christmas has nothing to do with the festivities.