Political candidates under the Economic Freedom Party (EFP) in Mandera County have called on residents to maintain peace a few days after a clash at a presidential political rally in Mandera Town. Led by gubernatorial candidate Hassan Noor Hassan and Senator Billow Kerrow, they asked EFP supporters to preach peace and tolerance as elections get closer. They were speaking while on a campaign trail in Dandu, Mandera West Constituency. “We are a peaceful team and despite what our opponents plan against us let us remain peaceful and vote for this winning team overwhelmingly,” Mr Kerrow said. ELDERS' CHOICE Mr Kerrow, who has since given in to the Garre Council of Elders’ decision barring him from seeking a re-election, described the defiant team led by Governor Ali Roba as “losers”. “That team has been in office and proved that they can achieve nothing for Mandera and this is why a fresh team should get in the county government office,” he said in reference to Governor Roba-led team. A decision by elders back in August 2016 through their negotiated democracy initiative has split the communities living in Mandera right in the middle creating two political groups. TWO TEAMS One team supporting the elders’ decision is branded Tokuma, translated to mean unity, and the Governor Roba camp is referred to as Firfirsa meaning divide. “We have to stick together as one community and defend our resources from the national government by making sure our needs are satisfied,” said Mr Kerrow. Mr Hassan echoed Senator Kerrow’s statement, further exuding confidence that his team will carry the day come August 8. “My team is about bringing services closer to the people and this means devolution funds will come from Mandera headquarters to every sub-county and ward,” he said. ROBA SELFISH Mr Hassan, a former Provincial Commissioner, accused Governor Roba of failing to serve residents of Mandera and being selfish. “Our hospitals lack medical specialists. We don’t have medicine but once you vote for this team, I will make sure we build a Kemsa warehouse in Mandera so that delivery of drugs and other medical equipment can be fast and efficient,” he said. He promised to eliminate disparities between rural and urban healthcare facilities. Mr Hassan, who enjoys support from the council of elders, pledged to support orphans in Mandera to get education. He said he wants to see Mandera get fresh water supply by drilling boreholes across the county.  