The 91st edition of the Kenya National Music Festival started in style on Monday at the Masinde Muliro University with presentations from children in lower primary classes. The pupils entertained hundreds of guests in the institution’s main hall with dazzling pieces in the Singing Game category. Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya officially opened the event. For the third year running, Gilgil Hills Academy emerged the winner in the category and got a standing ovation from the audience. SONGS In this section, children are required to perform songs, dances and games they usually do in their free time. The school faced stiff competition from the runners-up — St Peter’s Mumias and Sony Sugar Complex.   The chairperson of the school, Mrs Loise Waithaka, said the institution had invested heavily in singing games since they are part of young children’s upbringing. “We are happy to win the trophy. The children enjoy performing. They do so naturally and seem not to be conscious that they are in a competition,” said Mrs Waithaka. NUTRITION Lower primary classes also participated in the Nutrition category, where Nairobi’s Makini Preparatory School was the winner. The pupils presented an English choral verse “Narisha”. It drove home the message that without proper nutrition, children cannot perform well in the classroom or even outside. Hotels in Kakamega reported brisk business as the music contest started. Popular eateries in the town were packed, with customers sampling the traditional ingokho (chicken) dish, roast meat and traditional vegetables. BUSINESS A number of hotels increased accommodation charges due to the high number of guests checking in.   Ms Serah Mwangi, a manager at the Snack Stop Restaurant, said she was looking forward to improved business during the event. “We have 25 rooms and half of them are full. We have received calls from clients asking for reservations,” said Ms Mwangi. County Police Commander Tito Kilonzi said security had been boosted in the region because of the many students participating in the competition. HARASSMENT Headteachers of schools taking part in the festival in Kakamega accused officers from the National Transport Safety Authority (NTSA) and the police of harassment. Kenya Secondary Schools Heads Association chairman Kahi Indimuli said the officers had camped in the region and were arbitrarily arresting drivers of school buses ferrying students to the venue of the contest. “Since Sunday, NTSA and police officers have been camping in Kakamega. In their view, the buses have faulty speed governors or parts,” said Mr Indimuli. However, NTSA deputy director, corporate communication, Dido Guyatu, said only two vehicles had been impounded for speeding. A total of 130,000 students and 58 adjudicators are participating in the festival.  