The Kirinyaga governorship race has attracted national interest as Kenyans watch two of the country's most famous women, former Cabinet ministers Martha Karua and Anne Waiguru, fight for the seat. But there is another woman in the same race. The youthful businesswoman is hoping to become the county's deputy governor. Dorothy Wanja, 35, is the running mate of Muriithi Kagai, an economist who is also vying for the county's gubernatorial seat as an independent candidate. Ms Wanja, the proprietor of Valine Insurance Company, hails from Gichugu constituency, where Nark Kenya leader Karua and Ms Waiguru, the former Devolution Cabinet secretary, also come from. NEWCOMER TO POLITICS She studied at Gachiongo Primary School and Ngiriambu Secondary School in Kirinyaga before joining Daystar University, from where she graduated with a degree in business administration and management. Ms Wanja, who also holds a masters’ degree in strategic management, says she has what it takes to be a deputy governor and is confident they can win the seat even as the two women are seen as the front-runners. "Although this is my first time in politics, I'm capable of becoming the first woman county deputy governor in the region," she said. The mother of one recalled how Mr Kagai approached her to be his running mate early this year. "I was managing my insurance company, which has branches across Kenya, when Mr Kagai came to my office and asked me to be his running mate. "He had learnt about me while on the campaign trail in Gichugu and looked for me and there was no way I would have let him down," said Ms Wanja. 'FRESH IDEAS' The running mate expressed confidence that they will win the August 8 polls and take up the county's leadership. According to Ms Wanja, it is time the county gets young and dynamic leaders with fresh ideas to transform it into an economic hub. "Our county has lagged behind in development because of poor leadership. And since I and Mr Kagai are young and highly educated we shall make a difference in this region," she said. Ms Wanja and Mr Kagai were criss-crossing the region wooing voters and exuded confidence that they will triumph.  