Zedekiah Bundotich, alias Buzeki, an independent candidate in the Uasin Gishu governorship race, would beat the incumbent Governor Jackson Mandago if elections were to be held today. This according to a new opinion poll released by Infotrak on Friday. UNDECIDED Out of those polled, 54.2 per cent said they would vote for Buzeki while 42.1 per cent said they would back Mr Mandago. Another 3.7 per cent are undecided. The study was conducted in three counties— Mombasa, Kakamega and Uasin Gishu between June 22 and July 2, 2017. In the Uasin Gishu senatorial race, Jubilee candidate Margaret Kamar leads with 59.2 percent followed by independent candidate Robert Kemei at 15.9 percent, with Thomas Kipkurui coming a distant third with only nine percent. However 12.7 percent are still undecided. 900 In the Woman Representative race, former chief registrar of the Judiciary Gladys Boss Shollei commands a comfortable lead with 69.3 percent followed by independent candidate Rael Chebichil with 8.3 percent. A sample of 900 respondents were interviewed a margin of error of -/+ 3.3 percent The Infotrak survey also puts Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya (ODM) ahead of his closest rival, Senator Boni Khalwale (Ford Kenya), who is seeking to unseat him. Mr Oparanya would get 68.3 per cent of the votes while Dr Khalwale would manage 13 percent. In the senatorial race, ODM candidate and former Secretary-General of nurses’ union Seth Panyako leads with 27.4 percent followed by Cleophas Wakhungu of Amani National Congress at 10.6 percent. 1,800 Stanley Livondo of Jubilee Party is third with seven percent. However nearly half of the voters— 49.5 percent— are undecided. ODM candidate Muhanda Elsie leads with 34.3 percent in the Woman Representative race followed by Pamela Nyagala of ANC at 13.3 percent. More worrying is that 44.4 percent are still undecided. A sample of 1,800 respondents were interviewed with margin of error +/-2.3 percent in the Kakamega poll.   16PC In Mombasa, the Infotrak poll puts incumbent Governor Hassan Joho (ODM) ahead with 63 per cent popularity as Jubilee’s Suleiman Shahbal comes in a distant second with 15 percent of the votes. If polls were held today, Wiper’s Hassan Omar would be third with 4.8 of the votes while Nyali MP Hezron Awiti of Vibrant Democratic Party would get only 3 of the votes “Things can still change as 16 percent of the voters are yet to make up their mind despite the intense campaigns and launch of manifestos that we have witnessed in the region,” said Mary Njoki, a researcher at Infotrak. In the senatorial race, ODM candidate Faki Mohamed leads with 20 percent followed by Katana Hazel of Jubilee with 4.8 percent. Independent candidate Hamisi Mwaguya is third with 2.9 percent. FINANCIERS ODM candidate Mohamed Asha Hussein also leads in the woman representative seat chase with 24.3 percent followed by Abdalla Amina of Jubilee at 8.5 percent, with Wiper candidate Mohamed Zamzam coming third with 2.8 percent. Majority of the voters— at 57.2 percent— have not decided, a factor Ms Njoki said gives the candidates a lot of ground work to do with only 23 days remaining to the polls A sample of 1,000 respondents were interviewed with a margin of error of -/+3.1percent. Infotrak declined to disclose the financiers of the poll in the three counties.  