I was recently invited for a party. A family friend’s son and only child had turned one, and like we Kenyans do when our firstborns turn one year, he threw a mega bash. If you have attended such bashes, then you know that the money pumped into them could finance a wedding. And we invite everyone, including our great, great grandparents and distant cousins we have never met. If you come from my community, a firstborn’s first birthday isn’t a fitting bash if you haven’t slaughtered a goat and prepared six types of mukimo. If you’re Kenyan, you also know that children’s birthdays are basically adults’ parties in disguise, that’s why there will be copious amounts of alcohol instead of milk and juice and why some of the invitees, thoroughly drunk if I may add, will finally make their way home at 3pm, long after the birthday boy or girl went to sleep. Might I add that very few invitees bother to buy a present for the tot? If you’re wondering how I know so much about what transpires in these birthdays, I am talking from experience. I am embarrassed to say that I fall under the category of misguided parents that overspend on their first child’s first birthday. Seven years later, I still cringe when I remember how much I spent on my son’s first birthday, a birthday that he cannot even remember, and which he did not appreciate in the first place, since he had no idea what “birthday” meant. Had I saved that money in my Sacco, I would still be reaping the benefits. But I was talking about freebies. When we arrived for the birthday at 2pm, as I had expected, we were among the first to arrive, (For us Kenyans, 2pm is too early for a party). Thirsty, I asked for a glass of water – it came in a tall branded glass – Smirnoff, the glass proclaimed. As the day progressed, I began to spot an assortment of other branded glasses, including several for Grant’s whiskey and other brands whose names I don’t remember. I am not exaggerating, but I didn’t see a glass that could possibly have been bought in a supermarket. I had a feeling that the hosts had been motivated to partake of these alcoholic drinks due to the freebie glass they came with. Just in case this family friend is reading this, I too have an assortment of freebie branded items at home, so please rest assured that this is a case of the pot calling the kettle black. Moving on, being the election period, there are lots of free stuff going round; the fact that their value is greatly diminished thanks to the faces of the “generous” candidates staring out of them does not seem to discourage voters. The other day, a group of women were filmed fighting each other for khangas that an aspirant had dished out, though chances are that every one of these women probably already owned more than two better-looking khangas. This love for freebies is probably what motivates some of us to pile our plates high with food we know we cannot possibly finish at social functions such as weddings. Freebies, I have come to realise, are motivators. The promise of something, even though not special in any way, is capable of nudging you to do something you normally would be reluctant to do. For instance, most companies promise their employees breakfast when they call for meetings that start before 8am. If this isn’t a motivator, I don’t know what is. I doubt there would be as big turnouts in such early morning meetings if there was no free breakfast attached. Marketers long discovered the power of freebies. I cannot count the number of times I receive invites to attend functions, and just at the end of the invite, the PR agency putting together the event writes, as if it were an afterthought, “Breakfast will be served”. That or the title of the invite reads, “Breakfast meeting.” A dangling carrot right there, a motivator, a freebie that many find difficult to resist.  cnjunge@ke.nationmedia.com; Twitter: @cnjerius. The writer is the Daily Nation features editor  