Two herdsmen and a suspected bandit were killed in a banditry attack in Kapkechir village on Tuesday in Baringo South Sub-County following a clash between herders and armed raiders. An unknown number of armed bandits suspected to be from Tiaty struck the village at around 1pm and shot dead two Tugen herders from Mochongoi area who were tending their livestock. Two others sustained serious gunshot injuries. The attackers stole unknown number of livestock. SHOOTOUT The two were shot dead after they tried to repulse the raiders but one bandit was also gunned down in the shootout that lasted for more than one hour. Confirming the incident, Baringo police boss Peter Ndung’u said there could be a possibility that herders from the Pokot and Tugen communities must have had some misunderstanding and the attack ensued. “The herders who were killed are not from the same village but they had just brought in their livestock to herd in the area following the long dry spell. Several herders from Samburu, Turkana, Pokot and Tugen communities are herding there and they must have clashed and ended up attacking each other,” said Mr Ndung’u. He said that the herders are among others who were evicted after they invaded Laikipia Conservancy Ranch. “We are still investigating the circumstances under which the killings happened but so far nobody has come forward to report the incident,” said the commandant. TENSION Tension has gripped the area following the killings with some residents reportedly fleeing their homes fearing more attacks. According to Mochongoi Location Chief Patrick Chepsoi, more than 50 livestock are yet to be recovered after they were stolen by the bandits who fled towards Chesirimion village in the neighbouring Tiaty Sub-County. He said that the two injured persons are recuperating at Nyahururu hospital in the neighbouring Laikipia County. An elder from the area, Mr John Wendot, said that livestock was a major source of livelihood to many families and many of them have been rendered paupers by cattle rustling. “Our people no longer go about their daily chores fearing for their lives as the armed bandits unleash terror,” said Mr Wendot. He said that insecurity situation was a threat to development which they said was contributing to rampant levels of poverty in the area. “The government should deploy more security personnel along the borders of the volatile areas especially Kiserian, Lorok, Mukutani, Noosukro and Ruggus areas of Baringo South Sub-County to avert the cattle rustling menace which has turned out to be a perennial problem in Baringo County,” he added. The incident comes barely five days after a standard seven pupil was shot dead by armed bandits while herding livestock at the volatile Chepkesin area in Baringo North Sub-County.  