COMPETITION IN THE hospitality industry in the cosmopolitan Nakuru Town has intensified with the opening of a second hotel by the Sarova group, one of the country’s leading chain of hotels. Sarova Hotels, Resorts & Game Lodges, which owns the Sarova Lion Hill Game Lodge in the Lake Nakuru National Park, has signed a management contract with Woodlands Hotel to operate the four-star Sarova Woodlands Hotel and Spa. The three-storey hotel has rooms with varying degrees of comfort, all with wireless Internet connectivity, and a parking bay for 150 vehicles. It also has a health club with the latest equipment as well as steam and sauna facilities. The hotel, built  at a cost of more than Sh1.3 billion, sits on two acres in the upmarket Milimani Estate off the Nairobi-Nakuru Highway and overlooks the Lake Nakuru National Park. It is also strategically located between Menengai Crater and the Hyrax Pre-historic Site. The Hotel has a borehole and has installed gutters to harvest rain water to supplement its supply from the Nakuru Water and Sanitation Company (Nawasco). In addition, it has solar water heating panels and two stand-by generators. The General Manager, Mr Ken Korir, says the hotel is targeting the increasing, high-end market clients seeking quality services. “We want guests holding meetings in our conference facilities to enjoy their deliberations in a conducive environment,” he says. Meanwhile, the hotel’s Food and Beverage Director, Mr Shailender Singh, says the they offer mixed cuisine, including continental, pan-African, Pan-Asian and Indian in a buffet setting. Mr Korir says the hotel is also beneficial to Nakuru residents since 40 per cent of its 120 employees are from the county, adding that the number is sure to increase as business picks up. In addition, it offers a ready market for suppliers of items such as fresh vegetables, and will, as a result, improve the county’s economy. Mr Korir says the increased competition as a result of the hotel’s entry will raise the level of customer care in Nakuru Town.  