President Uhuru Kenyatta and some members of the cabinet have given statements following the death of Interior Cabinet Secretary Joseph Nkaissery. "Today is a sad day for Kenya and all our people. We lost a gallant officer, an officer who has for the most part of his life served with total dedication and love for his country. Maj General Joseph Nkaissery was a man who believed in this country, believed in the principles and foundation on which this country was built. A man who dedicated most of his life to serving this great nation. I personally have lost a friend, a colleague, whom as late as yesterday we spent part of the day praying together for peace for this country, whom as late as 9.30 last night we were discussing issues pertaining and relating to peace, to unity in this country. Indeed on one of his last notes he spent discussing his great passion, which was Kenya’s preparedness for the Junior Athletics (IAAF U18 Championships) that is supposed to commence in the next few days. I take this opportunity to offer my personal condolences to his family, his wife and children in particular, to his friends, the Maa community, who have lost a great leader in their community. I call on Kenyans across the political divide to mourn in peace and to uphold his singular mission of a peaceful united Kenya. More details will be given out in the course of the day as with the circumstances of this unfortunate and untimely death. But even as we wait for those results of the postmortem so that we can all properly understand the cause of death, I ask Kenyans to be calm, I ask Kenyans to be united." Foreign Affairs Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed “ I have learnt with deep sadness and sorrow of the sudden death of Cabinet colleague and brother, Retired General Joseph Kasaine Nkaissery. I enjoyed working with the Late Minister and recall with fondness, his anecdotal humour. He was always available for consultation and made our Cabinet engagements such an enjoyable experience. We worked in perfect concert. I know that we will all notice his absence and mourn his loss. We will also celebrate the years honoured to serve as his colleagues. On my own behalf and that of staff at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we share in the pain and grief following this tragic loss. We also affirm our empathy and solidarity with General Nkaissery’s family, friends and fellow compatriots. May God’s comfort and fortitude hold us together during this very difficult time. A life dedicated to country is preserved in immortal legacy.” Transport Cabinet Secretary James Macharia "On behalf of the Ministry of Transport , Infrastructure , Housing and Urban Development and on my own behalf, I wish to convey heartfelt condolences to the family of our late brother, Hon  Nkaisery . Indeed, we always referred to each other as "Ndugu", and his ministry provided key support to national and strategic installations in my ministry, including airports, seaports and, lately, the SGR. We shall eternally be indebted to Gen Nkaisery for having supported us in achieving Category 1 status for our aviation sector by disposing off security challenges. Personally, I take heart that my ministry delivered one of his most passionate goals before he passed on that is the launch of the Isara-Mashru-Imaroro road in Kajiando last week by the President."   Security Minister Joseph Nkaissery passes on at Karen Hospital, a few hours after he was admitted for check-up. The CS was aged 67 at the time of his death..