“People respond in accordance to how you relate to them. If you approach them on the basis of violence, that’s how they’ll react. But if you say, ‘We want peace, we want stability,’ we can then do a lot of things that will contribute towards the progress of our society.”-- Nelson Mandela’s wisdom still rings true. As Kenya inches closer to yet another general election in August, the world is watching us. Seasoned investors, currency traders, geopolitical experts, policy advisers, foreign companies and tourists want to know the answer to one question: Will Kenya continue on the path of peace, stability and progress after the August 8 poll? The answers we provide to this difficult question at this stage of our journey will define the path of our nation for decades to come. DIVISIVE NARRATIVE The revolutionary, divisive narrative spewing out of the Nasa camp should be unnerving to all. The foreign interests mentioned are keen on a stable and secure environment. More importantly, Kenyans have tasted peace and stability, and they should jealously guard this reality. Due to peace and stability we enjoy, over 2 million jobs have been created in the last four years only. It has provided the fertile conditions to allow high-tech innovations to add over $1billion to our economy, and increase foreign spending from a measly $400 million in 2013 to $1.9 billion last year. NEW BRIDGES Peace and stability has enabled creation of over 9,000 kilometres of new paved highways, new bridges, a standard railway line, and an Internet connectivity, which is not only the envy of the continent, but which is faster and more penetrative than it is in half of Europe and China. Hundreds of thousands of our students now boast new and improved university spaces and colleges that offer some of the best learning conditions in Africa. In fact, since 2013, Kenya has seen the creation of six new universities, and employment schemes to ensure that our young graduates have the opportunities their hard work and studies merit have been made possible. Peace and stability require a reliable healthcare, disease control, and a responsible engaged government. ROBUST HEALTHCARE Free maternal healthcare has been revolutionary. The expanded and refurbished referral hospitals in places such as Busia, Kakamega, Kisii and Machakos have demonstrated a commitment to creation of a robust healthcare system for all Kenyans. These milestones speak volume about the direction this country is heading. Yet this journey of incredible growth - in education, in healthcare, in the economy, in infrastructure, in tourism - is in danger of being dangerously undermined. Team Nasa, led by Raila Odinga and his crew are speaking the language of division. They are even calling into question the results of an election before it has even been held. This is how seeds of violence are sowed. This group is hardly what this country needs to forge ahead. POWER DISTRIBUTION Like any other Kenyan, this delicate stage of our country’s development should concern us all. It is crucial that we all take a long, hard look at the bigger picture. A simple regional or historical analysis puts contemporary Kenya at the top of nearly every achievement list. In the field of power distribution alone the facts speak for themselves. Since 2013 more Kenyans have been connected to electricity than in all the years prior to that dating back to 1963. The world is concerned about Kenya. And in one of the few true democratic processes on the continent, in a country with a free, critical press and an active civil society, the people of Kenya have the opportunity to give the answer the world the correct answer in August. That answer must be one of peace, stability and progress, for the sake of all is all.  Mr Mabuto is a lecturer in communication skills, Kisii University. bmabutoz@gmail.com  