National women's beach volleyball team pair of Gaudencia Makokha and Naomi Too has qualified for the FIVB Word Championship to be held from July 28 to August, 2017 in Vienna, Austria. The duo finished third in the African Nation Cup- cum- World Championship qualifiers that ended on Sunday evening in Maputo, Mozambique. The top four teams in the men s and women s completion booked their slot in the international event at the end of the three-day competition.The Kenya Pipeline duo, who had been drawn in Pool 'A' alongside Sierra Leone, Mauritius, Benin and the hosts, won thrice and lost one to finish second in their pool.The Patrick Owino-coached side beat Benin 2-0 (21-12, 21-5), Sierra Leone (21-12, 21-17) before falling to Mozambique 0-2(18-21, 11-21).The home girls however recovered to defeat Mauritius 2-0(21-17, 21-12) to set up a semi-final clash against Morocco who had topped Pool B .Kenya lost to Morocco 2-0 in the last four but made amends as they beat Mozambique in the third fourth play-off 2-0 to bag the bronze medal. Rwanda led by Kenyan-born coach Paul Bitok won the women s competition after a 2-1 win over Morocco. This is an amazing achievement, we thank God and our families for the immense support and prayers. We vow to do our best in the world championship, Makokha posted on her Facebook Page on Sunday evening.It was however despair for the men s team of Ibrahim Odour and Jimmy Mwaniki, as they finished seventh. , Morocco, South Africa, Mozambique and Sierra Leone booked the four championship slots.Kenya Beach Federation chairman Ben Juma heaped praised on the two sides. The teams had few days to train prior to the event and as a federation we want to applaud them for the efforts. Congratulations to the women's pair who have done as proud , said Juma, who doubles up as the Kenya Volleyball Federation secretary general. For now we call upon people wishers to come on board and help us give the team the much needed support to ensure they have adequate preparation and training ahead of the championship. They have shown that they can perform well and as a federation we want to accord them the friendly environment. The national teams are due to arrive in the country on Monday. email print email print