Opposition Nasa presidential flag-bearer Raila Odinga has reiterated his commitment to an agreement reached with his co-principals in the National Super Alliance (Nasa) that requires him to serve for only one term. Mr Odinga, the ODM leader, also said his alliance had adopted mechanisms to tackle rigging in the August 8 polls and will be willing to accept the results if the elections are free and fair. He downplayed claims that the MoU between him and Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper), Moses Wetang’ula (Ford-K), Musalia Mudavadi (ANC) and Isaac Ruto (Chama Cha Mashinani) is not legally binding and that it can be ignored. He said that unlike previous failed memorandums that were breached, this one was made public and all partners are committed to stick to the rules of the game. “Everything we have done, we have done in good faith, and trust is important,” Mr Odinga said in a live interview on Citizen TV on Thursday night. He was interviewed at his home in Karen. MWAI KIBAKI He said those around then President Mwai Kibaki, with whom he shared power during the grand coalition government, took advantage of the President’s ill health after he was involved in a road crash to renege on the agreement. “They took advantage of that situation and refused to deliver what was provided for in the MoU. I said Kibaki Tosha, but I have been betrayed. But that is part of politics,” Mr Odinga said. However, Mr Odinga said he could not rule out dangers posed by some members of the alliance walking out and compromising their unity of purpose. “Any agreement can be breached depending on the circumstances. Any member of the party can walk out,” Mr Odinga said in response to concerns that the agreement can be rendered irrelevant if members move to other parties. He denied claims that he backtracked on the 2013 agreement that he was to vie once and leave Mr Musyoka to contest for the presidency in the 2017 elections. “I have not said that I will run again. But that (2013) agreement was frustrated by circumstances,” he said, adding that the agreement was tied to him winning the presidency. “We did not. So I had nothing to hand over. But this time we are going to form the government,” Mr Odinga said. PARALLEL TALLYING He faulted the IEBC’s objection to plans by the opposition to undertake a parallel tallying of votes in the August 8 poll results. “IEBC is engaging in an exercise in futility. Parallel tallying is not a crime and these are measures to prevent rigging,” Mr Odinga said. The law, he said, allows results announced at polling stations and in constituencies to be final and there is, therefore, no point for the government and the IEBC to be jittery about the opposition’s move to put up a parallel tallying centre. Mr Odinga said the opposition had expressed concerns on the level of preparedness of the IEBC though the agency has kept on making pronouncements that they are ready to deliver credible polls. “They are too economical with facts and information. They need to be more transparent. They still have officers whose conduct in the last elections still leaves a lot to be desired,” the ODM leader said. RETURNING OFFICERS He said it is wrong for returning officers to be handpicked and posted countrywide to oversee the general election without a clear process on how they are recruited and vetted to ensure they will not facilitate rigging. Mr Odinga said the opposition had raised concerns that the ongoing auditing of the voter register is shrouded in secrecy, even after the IEBC promised to involve all players, including political parties. He appealed to the Jubilee leadership to commit themselves to fair play, saying if the elections are held transparently, there will be no complaints. Mr Odinga claimed that they had information that the government is planning to use security personnel to interfere with elections in the guise of maintaining law and order. Mr Odinga downplayed claims that the recently concluded ODM party primaries were marred by serious claims of electoral malpractices, given that political parties have to work with lean budgets for the exercise. He said ODM wanted to conduct nominations as early as January to allow them more time to resolve disputes but the IEBC insisted they must gazette all candidates before nominations and set the period for the primaries. Mr Odinga said a Nasa government will tackle corruption and address production costs within its first 90 days to address the increasing costs for essential goods and services.  