Poland and Iraq will be among the first teams to arrive for the IAAF World Under-18 Championships in July. Sports Cabinet Secretary Hassan Wario disclosed that Iraq will be the first country to arrive on July 1 followed by Poland, who hosted the inaugural 1999 competition, four days later. The championships will be held at the Moi International Sports Centre, Kasarani from July 12 to 16. The official arrival date is from July 9. Wario said the two countries are among 119 that have confirmed their participation in the youth championship that is expected to draw close to 3,000 athletes and officials. Wario, who was accompanied by his Interior counterpart Joseph Nkaissery, was addressing the press at Kasarani Tuesday after inspecting renovation and construction work going on at the Moi International Sports Centre and Kenyatta University in readiness for the competition. Kasarani will be the competition venue while Kenyatta University will be the athletes’ village, hosting close to 3,000 athletes and officials. Also in attendance were World Under-18 Championships chief executive officer Mwangi Muthee, the championships Local Organising Committee chairman Jackson Tuwei and Sports Principal Secretary Kirimi Kaberia, among others. WORKING IN TANDEM Wario declared that Kenya will be ready in time to host the championships as Nkaissery indicated that all the ministries that are involved — namely security, tourism, transport and sports — are working in tandem to deliver a successful event. “We are here to make sure that everything is running on time besides putting the right apparatus in place to ensure that all these areas will be secure for everyone,” said Nkaissery. Muthee said Spanish company Mondo, who will lay three tartan tracks at Kasarani and Kenya University, are already on site and work should be complete by the first week of June, ready for the dry run. Wario further assured all the areas that hosted the World Under-18 Championships camps of government’s support and continuity. “We know there are worries about what next after the event,” noted Wario. “But we shall engage the county governments where these camps are situation to see how they can also help.” VIBRANCY AND EXCITEMENT Wario said they shall also involve the private sectors to ensure that these camps are sustained and youth and junior athletes get to benefit from them. “I’m told many attended and it will be sad if that is to go down the drain,” said Wario. Tuwei, who is also the Athletics Kenya president, said the youth are the future of this country and thanked the government for liaising with Athletics Kenya to fund the camps. “We must not allow the vibrancy and excitement these camps have created to fizzle,” said Tuwei.   World Under-18 April holiday camps awake sleeping region.