Mount Elgon and West Pokot might have been synonymous with land clashes and caste rustling but the World Under-18 April holiday camps awoke the area with over 138 athletes attending. Perhaps the leafy Mount Elgon camp was held at Friends Moi High School, Kaptama based at the hills, drawing 55 participants, elicited the most excitement what with the camp being the first of its kind in the area. West Pokot that had of late grabbed headlines for the wrong reason of tribal clashes and castle rustling, had something positive to write home about with the camp at Nasokol Girls High School in Kapenguria hosting 83 athletes. What came out clearly from the camps that were held from April 9 alongside other camps across the country, was the discovery of the new talent what with the equipment that was donated by the World Under-18 Local Organising Committee for field events working magic. LOC donated field events facilities worth Sh 2 million to some camps across the country. Coaches and athletes want continuity with more of camps being set up during holidays to help train and mould athletes. “This is the first time this region is witnessing such a camp where the government is fully involved and especially in providing equipment in field events like shot-put, discuss, javelin and hammer,” said the Mount Elgon camp administrator and former 800m international Juma Ndiwa. “We would like more equipment.” Ndiwa hinted that they will organise for a fund-raising in view of sustaining the camp. “I have already approached many senior athletes and they are ready to help. I want to central and county government to help in this venture,” said Ndiwa adding that what the athletes only want is food, accommodation and the right equipment in training. At Mount Elgon, former National and Kenya Defence Force javelin champion Edward Ndiwa Chepkirui and former international Daniel Kororia, who managed the camp said it will be a shame if there will be no follow up after the final camp. “Few will make it to the World Under-18 but what next for them and the event? There is great potential in field events and we must at all cost keep, monitor and continue to refine the athletes we have identified,” said Kororia. Chepkirui said they have used the few equipment at their disposal to the maximum but more is needed to take the athletes to the next level. “They need to get accustomed to right spikes for javelin and jump events for maximum results,” said Chepkirui. Among the medal hopefuls from the Mount Elgon camp are javelin throwers Bethwel Kimutai and Maxwell Kibet, who are throwing up to 67 metres. Others are Diana Kipserem (2,000m s/c, 3,000m), Sheila Jepkosgei (800m,1,500m), Dominic Kiptum (3,000m) and Faith Cherop (javelin, shotput). Coach Boniface Tiren coordinated the West Pokot camp that had seven coaches. Among the 17 medal prospect from the camp are Andrew Lokuk (hammer, shot-put, discuss), Sharon Mkite (discuss, shot-put), Lydia Chepkercher (javelin), Gladys Cherop (3,000m) and Edward Kibet (3,000m, 5,000m). “We focused mainly on technical events like the hurdles and field events. “Most of them are new to these events especially in the field but they have picked gradually and it’s amazing,” said Tiren.  