Dickson Demba dips a tin in a white bag and scoops some brown substance that he places in a machine and switches it on. He later repeats the process three times, scooping what looks like maize, fishmeal and cassava as he puts the ingredients separately in the hammer mill. The chairman of Bidii Fish Feeds Self-help Group located in Luanda, Vihiga County, is in the process of making fish feeds to meet an order. But as he does the work, he is a worried man as the fluctuating power may not run machine. Other machines in the workshop include an extruder machine, weighing scale and mixer. “We started with fish farming as a hobby and turned it into a business and spread to making feeds,” says Demba. While keeping the fish, he recounts feeds took 60 per cent of their cost of production. “Getting quality feeds was also a problem. We used to buy feeds in bulk at Sh2,000 per 20kg sack from Uganda in 2007.” This pushed them to seek training from the Sagana Fish Farm. They were further trained at Moi University under the sponsorship of USAID on the art of making fish and at the Kenya Marine and Fisheries and Research Institute (KMFRI) for six months. “At Sagana, we learnt how to make fish pellets and later bought a pelletiser machine, which we used to produce sinking pellets for the cat fish,” says Demba. However, it did not take time before most farmers who reared tilapia started to ask about floating pellets. INGREDIENTS “We had to look for an extruder machine for floating fish pellets,” he says, noting they bought the machine from China in 2014 with help from Microfinance Support Programme Trust at Sh2 million. Deputy Production Manager Jack Onjiri lists fish meal (omena), wheat or rice bran, soya beans, sunflower or cotton seed cake and cassava, the binding agent, as the ingredients they use to make feeds. “We mix 14kg of wheat bran, 6kg of maize bran, 2kg of cassava, 2kg of fish meal and 1kg of soya beans to formulate a 25kg mass of fish feeds. This formulation has protein content of 26 to 28 per cent.” The ingredients are crushed separately using an electric hammer mill and then placed in a fish feed mixer for 10 minutes.    Once evenly mixed, they add water and put the feeds into the extruder machine. “We use the wet type extruder which has a conditioner and a steam boiler to produce fish pellets. The boiler continuously offers hot steam into the conditioner so that the materials can be fully cooked and the nutrition value is improved,” says Onjiri, adding the machine has the capacity to produce 600kg of fish feeds in a day. Once the feed exits the machine, a cutting device chops them into pellets of different sizes. The pellets can either be electrically dried or sun dried. The group sells starter feeds for fingerlings at Sh2,200 per 20kg sack. The pellets come in sizes of 2mm, 3mm, 4mm, and 6mm. While the grower pellets (4mm and 6mm) go from Sh1,600 to Sh1,800 per 20kg bag. CHALLENGES FACED “Crushing, mixing and finally producing floating pellets takes about 30 minutes,” says chairman Stephen Olwaba, adding vitamins and mineral premixes are added depending on client’s needs. They sell the feeds to farmers and agrovets in Siaya, Kakamega, Vihiga and Kisumu counties making up to Sh60,000 every month. “Our biggest sale was when Farm Africa contracted us to supply feeds worth Sh400,000 recently to agrovets and farmers,” says Demba, noting the group has 16 members (10 men and six women) and they make fish feeds every week. One of the challenges the group experiences is constant power blackout, which affects feed production. Then there is difficulty in acquiring some raw materials, especially fish meal. KMFRI Sang’oro Aquaculture Research Station Coordinator Safina Musa says commercial fish feed plants can use black soldier fly, dried blood meal from slaughter house and bone meal to replace fish meal. “There are three kinds of fish feeds namely starter, growers and brooders’ mashes. Each stage has different protein level. For example the starter mash has protein level of 26 to 28 per cent. Fingerlings need high protein contain for growth,” says Musa. She adds growers mash should have protein level of 25 to 26 per cent while brooders 23 to 25 per cent.   The plant is expected to boost fish farming in the region.