The Intergovernmental Relations Technical Committee (IGRTC) has called on all county governments to declare assets and liabilities they inherited from the defunct municipal authorities by June 30. The committee in March trained 500 people from all counties who will be taking inventory and recording all assets and liabilities currently under county governments. Those trained are from individual counties’ County Assets and Liabilities Committee (CALC), a team that has a chairman, three public officers from the county public service, the county commissioner and the clerk of the county assembly. AUDITOR Others are the National Lands Commission, Lands Ministry, Treasury and an internal auditor from counties who also serves as secretary to the commission. “The exercise shall involve identifying, verifying, validating and recording all assets as well as securing all relevant documents related to those assets and liabilities,” said Karega Mutahi, the chairman of the IGRTC. Prof Mutahi has in the past said that upon taking over from the Transition Authority, which steered devolution, counties had debts amounting to Sh68.9 billion. The assets from the 175 defunct local authorities were valued at Sh143.3 billion. “As much as functions have been devolved, the question about transfer of assets and liabilities is yet to be answered. "We have been grappling with this issue for four years,” said Devolution Cabinet Secretary Mwangi Kiunjuri in a past event. PLUNDER Mr Kiunjuri, however, said it was too early to determine whether the assets are lost or in place and that the committee will ascertain this. But this has also raised fears because some assets have been undeclared and governors call the shots in counties on how they are managed. There is also fear of plunder if the county bosses lose in the August elections. But Prof Mutahi said that just as the Transitional Authority carried out its inventory with full public participation, the IGRTC will also use the same method to verify the assets and has called for cooperation from the public and CALC.   Counties, by law, could not take over ownership of the property without the exclusive transfer from the TA.