The opposition in Narok County faces a major unity test as the leaders lay strategies to oust Governor Samuel Tunai. Talks are already underway to have Chama Cha Mashinani (CCM) gubernatorial candidates Patrick Ntutu and his Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) counterpart Joseph Tiampati ole Musuni agree on who should shelve his bid and support the other. Both ODM and CCM are part of the National Super Alliance (Nasa) coalition that has also roped in Ford Kenya, Wiper and the Amani National Congress (ANC). FORMIDABLE OPPONENTIf the two candidates agree to the proposal, Mr Tunai will have an uphill task of retaining his seat during the August 8 General Election. The talks are being spearheaded by a group of elders and religious leaders from the region. Members of the team say they do not want to gamble this time round and are hoping to front a ‘strong candidate’ to vie against Mr Tunai. Maasai elders chairman, Mr Hassan ole Kamwaro, confirmed the talks were ongoing. “We do not mind who between them will be selected. But one has to support the other for Mr Tunai to go home,” Mr Kamwaro says. SUGGESTION REJECTEDHe says it would be suicidal to have both of them on the ballot as the move would give Mr Tunai a clear win. “The two have to agree on who to step down for the other. Both Mr Ntutu and Mr Musuni command huge political support across the county. “We want them to set aside their pride and selfish interests and work for the betterment of Narok County. If they become adamant, they are a cursed lot,” he says. The Nation has learnt that there appears to be a strong push to have Mr Musuni drop his bid in favour of Mr Ntutu. But the decision to have Mr Musuni drop out has attracted a lot of opposition from his supporters, with Narok North MP Moitalel ole Kenta insisting it has to be the ODM candidate. Mr Kenta says a majority of the elders backed Mr Musuni in a mock election two years ago, meaning that he is the right person to face Mr Tunai in the polls. 'TRAITOR' TAGMr Tunai comes from the minority Siria clan in Trans Mara. “Mr Ntutu conceded and undertook to abide by the decision under oath only to change his mind after a few days. What made him turn against the decision is suspect and only self-serving,” Mr Kenta says. He adds that the decision to have one candidate to oppose the incumbent was made a long time ago. “We are a community that makes a decision and sticks to it. We do not waver,” he says. Should Mr Musuni be chosen, he still has one problem to sort out - that of being viewed as a ‘traitor’ of the community. After the 2013 elections, the ODM candidate, who came second after Mr Tunai, accepted a state job, leaving Mr Ledama ole Kina, one of the 2013 gubernatorial aspirants, to contest Mr Tunai’s disputed election in court single-handedly. TUNAI'S OPPONENTSHowever, Mr Kina lost the case. A number of legislators opposed to Mr Tunai then teamed up to form ‘Muthaiga five’ and led their supporters in a series of demonstrations in a bid to oust him. They included Narok Senator Stephen Ole Ntutu, his younger brother Patrick ole Ntutu, Narok North Moitalel ole Kenta, Narok South MP Korei ole Lemei and Emurua Dikirr MP Johana Ng’eno. They put up a spirited fight to eject Mr Tunai from office. However, they gave up after they were arrested and locked up at Muthaiga police station following the death of one of their supporters during protests. The group later disintegrated with Mr Kenta supporting Mr Musuni, as Mr Lemein threw his weight behind Mr Tunai, while the senator and Mr Ng’eno backed Mr Ntutu. MUSUNI FIREDMr Musuni was conspicuously missing from the group, making him earn suspicion from his supporters. The former ICT Principal Secretary later lost his job in what many viewed as a result of the bad blood between him and Mr Tunai. The tussle between the two gubernatorial aspirants is threatening to tear the opposition apart and maybe to the advantage of the incumbent. Mr Kenta claims that the grand plan for those pushing for Ntutu’s candidature was to assist Mr Tunai retain his seat.  