The family of a 23-year old man killed during a demonstration in Nyandarua on Saturday is calling for justice. Samuel Muiruri, a youth leader popularly known as “professor”, succumbed to his injuries at Kijabe Mission Hospital after he was shot during a protest against an order by the Political Parties Disputes Tribunal granting to the win to incumbent Women Rep Wanjiku Muhia, who had lost to Ms Faith Gitau in the Jubilee Party nomination. Another resident, David Warui Ironjo, a 56-year old father of six from Kahumbuini in Kiambu County, also suffered serious gunshot wounds. RESULTS NULLIFIED Mr Raphael Mwangi, a resident, said the two were shot at an area called Fly-Over in Kinangop constituency, inside the compound of St Michael Medical Clinic. After confirming the shooting when he visited the scene on Saturday, County Commissioner Samuel Kimiti said investigations will be conducted. However, no one has been arrested yet. The protests erupted in major towns after residents learnt that the Tribunal had nullified the results and directed Jubilee Party to give the nomination certificate to Ms Muhia. APPEAL FILED Yet, Ms Gitau had been declared winner with 106,004 votes against the incumbent who came second with 75,296 votes. Ms Gitau has moved to the High Court to appeal the ruling under a certificate of urgency. Police Commander Philip Opiyo said the protesters were unruly, interfering with the safety of motorists. "What happened was unfortunate since a group of youths started pelting vehicles on the highway with stones. "Some of the protesters were even looting from motorists," Mr Opiyo said. Governorship candidate Francis Kimemia said residents want justice for the victims. "We want to know who the culprits are and what action is being taken to ensure justice. "...why kill innocent people who were only picketing, which is allowed in the Constitution?" Mr Kimemia, a Jubilee Party member, told the Nation. TRIP TO HOSPITAL Ms Catherine Nyambura, Mr Muiruri’s mother, said she learnt of her son's shooting from a friend. "He was complaining of a severe headache in the morning and informed me that he was going to seek treatment at St Michael Hospital in Fly Over. "I called him later in the day to know if he had reached the hospital but he told me that would get back to me in a moment. "I later received a phone call from a friend who had accompanied him only to be informed that my son had been shot on his way to hospital," she recounted. Mr Kennedy Muiruri, the uncle, called for proper investigations. Additional Reporting by Eric Matara  