Dear Mr Kitoto,I am grateful for the good work you are doing. Please help me on this one: I had a girlfriend whom I loved so much that and I would have done anything for her. She is still in school. In October last year we realised she was pregnant, and being pro life, we decided we keep the baby.She told her friend, who also happens to be a close friend of her family, who advised her to abort. I looked for a pastor and asked him to talk to her mother.When her mother learnt about the pregnancy, she forced my girlfriend to abort. She threatened me and told me if her husband ever got to know that I had made his daughter pregnant, I would be in serious trouble. So on February 3, my girlfriend had an abortion. I tried to be understanding but things suddenly changed. By the time she was going back to school for the second term, she had already found another man, ostensibly to enable her to move on and smile again.Sometimes she tells me she can t move on because she is still in love with me, but at the same time she tells me she will try to give her mother what she wants, namely a rich man. Where do I really stand in her life? Please advise.John. Hi,This might not sound very pleasant but the truth is that you need to get out of this relationship and re-think your life. You probably mean well in all you say and do, but your girlfriend seems to have decided to live her life. If you are not careful, you could end up getting hurt as a result of her actions.The fact that she kept the abortion between herself and her mother should tell you something. There is an indication that she wants a lifestyle that will be a challenge to you in the future. You can see evidence of this new behaviour from the way she has chosen to relate with her parents.I feel like her values got eroded somewhere along the way, leading her to procure the abortion. There is no way you could have imposed your values on her. She has her life to live and is fully responsible for her choices. She might feel the need to retain you as a lover but is that really possible, given that she already has another boyfriend?I suggest that you move on in an amicable way. Do yourself a favour and take time to rebuild your life. If she really wants you, then you need to determine what you are looking for in a relationship. email print email print