Homeboyz launch the chase for their maiden Enterprise Cup glory when they face Western Bulls in the pre-quarterfinals at the Bullring, Kakamega on Saturday.The Deejays, who are sponsored by Menengai Cream Soap, hope for better results after they had a bad outing last season where they lost to Kabras Sugar 60-22 in the quarterfinals.The best run by the Deejays in the championship was in 2015 where they went all the way to the final before losing 28-0 to Kenya Commercial Bank (KCB). We really want to go all the way and lift the trophy so as to reward our fans after we lost in the Kenya Cup semi-finals to Kabras Sugar, said Homeboyz coach Paul Murunga, who will miss the services of injured centre Max Kangeri and wing Alvin Otieno. They have been replaced by Mark Wandeto and Stanley Isogon, who have been promoted from Eric Shirley Shield league. We lost heavily to Kabras Sugar last year since I had all by backline with me in the Netherlands for Amsterdam Sevens but we are at full strength now, said Murunga.LEOS LIE AWAIT WINNERThe winner between Homeboyz and Western Bulls, who have been relegated to Championship league, will meet Strathmore Leos in the quarterfinals next Saturday.The focus will also be at the RFUEA grounds where Kenya Harlequin take on Nakuru with the winner set to face Resolution Impala Saracens in the last eight. The clash between 10-time champions Quins, who are chasing their first title since 2011, and Nakuru - who have won the diadem six times - will be the centre of attraction at the RFUEA grounds. The Great Rift side won Enterprise Cup last in 2014.Mwamba and Kenyatta University s Blak Blad meet at Railways Club with the winner getting a chance to face defending champions KCB while the winner between Nondescripts and Mean Machine at the University of Nairobi will take on Kabra Sugar.Quins and Nakuru met last during the just ended Kenya Cup regular season where the Ngong Road-based lads won 33-14. While Quins beat Mwamba 32-31 to reach the semi-finals where they lost to KCB 19-12, Nakuru, the 2013, 2014 champions, failed to reach the play-offs, finishing seventh in the log. We are looking forward for the match. Our aim is to end the season with a title after we fell short in the Kenya Cup, said Nakuru coach Enos Otieno, who will welcome centre Brian Maina into the fold. We shall push ourselves to the limit for this one. Quins forwards coach Dominique Habimana, who won the Enterprise Cup with Nakuru in 2014, said he expects his former side to put in a tough fight. It will be a closely contested match where we shall give youngsters an opportunity in the match, said Habimana.Enterprise Cup (Pre-quarterfinals)Saturday Blak Blad v Mwamba (Kenyatta University)Nondescripts v Mean Machine (Jamhuri Park)Quins v Nakuru (RFUEA)Western Bulls v Homeboyz (The Bullring)Mwamba CupPre -quarterfinalsMoi University v South Coast Pirates (Eldoret)University of Eldoret v Mombasa (Eldoret)Bungoma Sharks v JKUAT Cougars (Bungoma)Thika v Kenya Methodist University (Thika) email print email print Mukidza was the 2016/2017 Kenya Cup top point scorer.