Jubilee Party nominees in Nyeri County have launched a scathing attack on independent candidates terming them as rebels. The 39 candidates said the “rebel” politicians who ditched the party will be treated as part of the opposition. Senatorial aspirant Ephraim Maina, who is the group’s spokesman, disclosed that there was an agreement amongst the party aspirants before nominations that losers in primaries will support those who win. “I am surprised that those who we were competing with have defaulted on this agreement and we are therefore urging voters to completely reject them. In Nyeri they are part of the opposition for defying President Uhuru Kenyatta,” he said. WORKING WITH NASA Governorship candidate Wahome Gakuru claimed that independent candidates are working with Nasa and should therefore be denied a chance to hold elective positions in the county and also in the entire Mount Kenya region. Kieni MP Kanini Kega said electing independent candidates would be harmful to the Head of State in the National Assembly. He said that elected independent lawmakers will find it hard to operate in parliamentary committees and even sit in the Business Committee that sets the House agenda. The MP observed that it is likely the current independent candidates will side with either majority or minority sides in parliament, which is contrary to the behaviour of independent candidates as stipulated in the Constitution. CAMPAIGN FOR UHURU The politicians further resolved to campaign together for President Kenyatta’s re-election and ensure he gets more than 460,000 votes in Nyeri County. Mr Maina also said they decided to forget their past political differences to strengthen their newly-agreed political resolve. He said that the infighting amongst them will only affect the re-election of President Kenyatta, adding that they must now have a working synergy to ensure that the worst does not happen. “Before nominations, most of us were pulling in different directions but this Jubilee ticket has literally forged a common front for us. Going forward, we shall work together for the sake of our President,” he said. Among those vying as independent candidates in Nyeri include current Governor Samuel Wamathai, Women Representative Priscilla Nyokabi and Nyeri businessman Dan Wamahiu who is vying for the senate seat. The independent candidates are, however, insisting they are supporting President Uhuru Kenyatta’s re-election bid adding that they lost the party’s ticket unfairly.  