The 11th edition of the Amaco International Volleyball Tournament will take place this weekend at the Eldoret Polytechnic Grounds. Sponsors Amaco Insurance (Africa Merchant Assurance Company Limited) have pumped in Sh6.6 Million into this year’s event, up from the Sh5.5 Million they offered during the tournament’s tenth anniversary last year. According to the organisers, the tournament has attracted 50 teams including teams from Rwanda, Burundi, Uganda and Tanzania. The teams are free to enter into either the schools category, the colleges category or the club’s category which are each divided into men and women’s division. Winning teams in the club’s category will take home a cash prize of Sh100,000, while first and second runners-up will walk away with Sh75,000 and Sh50,000 respectively. Amaco’s Managing Director Jonah Tomno said that his company’s continued support for the tournament is as a result of their belief in the power that sports has in generating social, economic and environmental change while contributing in sustainable development. “Sports has continued to make an impact on the lives of individuals and we strive to create a good platform for upcoming volleyball professionals to show case their talent both in the local and international scene. “Amaco will continue to seek avenues of supporting local and regional talent such as this one so that more of our players can be able to express themselves,” he said during the launch held at the company’s headquarters in Nairobi on Monday. Kenya Prisons, the tournament’s defending champions in the women’s category, have confirmed participation in this year’s event, and Kenya Forestry, Kenya Police, KDF (Kenya Defense Forces), KCB (Kenya Commercial Bank) and KPA (Kenya Postal Authority) are the other Kenyan teams that have confirmed participation so far. Last year, Kenya Prisons lodged out 2015 holders Kenya Pipeline 3-1 (18-25, 28-26, 25-18, 25-23) in last year’s finals held in Eldoret, while GSU (General Service Unit) beat Kenya Prisons 3-1 to secure the men’s title. The Amaco International tournament is currently the only one of its kind that attracts foreign teams, and is held in mid-May every year to coincide with the Eldoret leg of the Kenya Volleyball Federation league.   Pair of Gaudencia Makokha and Naomi Too emerge third.