The Orange Democratic Movement has formally nominated Raila Odinga as its presidential candidate, effectively legitimising his position as the flagbearer for the joint-opposition alliance. Only last week, Mr Odinga was declared the torchbearer for the National Super Alliance, with Kalonzo Musyoka as his running mate in a coalition that brings together five parties. Today, the onus falls on Jubilee Party to similarly nominate its presidential candidate and running mate — Uhuru Kenyatta and William Ruto respectively. VOTE-HUNTING All these are in fulfilment of the stipulations by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC), which has set the deadline of May 10 for parties to nominate their presidential candidates. Party nominations are merely procedural because the candidates have long been campaigning even before the referee blew the whistle. Jubilee and Nasa leaders have been traversing the country in search of votes, giving the politicians the dubious distinction of permanently being on the campaigns. But this weekend marks a milestone as parties begin organise themselves more seriously to roll out the vote-hunt. However, the main concern is that campaign is all about ethnic mobilisation. The country has been divided into zones and politicians are hell-bent on marshalling their troops purely on the basis of ethnicity, not ideology or any economic agenda. PEACEFUL CAMPAIGNSOur concern is that we, the voters, have allowed ourselves to be pooled together and herded like animals and led to any direction. We do not ask politicians what they stand for and why they deserve our votes. Evidently, the presidential elections promise to be a tough race as the country is divided into nearly two equal halves. Experience has shown that closely contested elections are prone to disputes and chaos. Already, Nasa has raised strong objection to IEBC’s quest to vary the law to disallow announcement of presidential tallying at the constituency level. Clearly, this is building up as a potential hot point for contest, hence must be handled carefully. We exhort the parties to conduct campaigns decently without inflaming ethnic passions that breed anarchy. Similarly, the IEBC, Judiciary and security teams must act judiciously to forestall chaos.  