The rapid growth of the betting industry in recent years has been put it in the spotlight for various reasons. Regulators and purists advocate stringent rules and a constricted operating environment to slow it down with the accent that it has negative social effects and undermines national productivity, as it encourages people to live by chancing on their luck. But governments see in it an opportunity for raising tax revenues, more so at a time when various sectors of the economy are sluggish. PUNITIVEThis provides the context of the current discourse on the taxation of the betting companies. Last week, the Parliamentary Finance Committee rejected a proposal by the government to levy a 50 per cent tax on the betting companies on the ground it is punitive and creates a barrier to the expansion of a growth sector. Such a tax regime portends ill for any industry and discourages any investment in an emerging sector. SIN ITEMS And for those seeking to curtail the growth of that business, the approach is retrogressive and runs counter to the dictates of a market economy. Now, the government has seen sense and proposed to reduce the tax ratio to 35 per cent; which proposal will be returned to Parliament tomorrow for fresh debate. Gambling fits in the category of sin items and for which governments legitimately impose high taxes to rake in substantial revenues. So proposing a tax portfolio above that of essential items is not injudicious. REVENUE STREAMThe MPs have a chance to revisit the matter and make proper and practical decisions on the proposal. Let them debate the subject soberly. The new figure looks reasonable and provides a good starting point for the debate. The sector must be regulated, but not through punitive taxation that is counter-productive. Regulation has never been achieved through punitive levies; in fact, that encourages underworld operations, which are perilous. Betting is with us and is proving to be a major revenue stream. So the only option is to manage it properly rather than try to kill or stifle it through needlessly punitive penalties and regulations.  