Interior Cabinet Secretary Joseph Nkaissery has asked Kajiado West MP Moses ole Sakuda to shelve his plans to vie as an independent candidate, which he says would antagonise Jubilee Party candidate George Sunkuyia. Mr Sakuda was defeated by Mr Sunkuyia in the party primaries but is now threatening to run as an independent candidate, something Jubilee is keen to avoid as it is feared it will divide the party’s supporters thereby giving advantage to the Nasa candidate. “Jubilee will support Sunkuyia. Sakuda is a resourceful man, he can getKajiado West many good jobs,” said Mr Nkaissery. Mr Nkaissery was addressing party supporters in Kiserian on Saturday evening during a prayer event organised in honour of Philip Mpayeei, the Kajiado County Jubilee Party Senate nominee. Mr Mpayeei defeated incumbent Peter Mositet, who later expressed dissatisfaction with the nomination process and resigned from the party. Mr Mositet has vowed to contest as an independent candidate. SOFT LANDING Also urging Mr Sakuda not to vie as an independent candidate was governorship nominee Joseph ole Lenku. Mr Lenku urged Mr Nkaissery to use his influence to ensure that Mr Sakuda is given a soft landing, probably a job in the government so as not to block Mr Sunkuyia’s path to Parliament. He referred to a deal cut for Kajiado Woman Representative Mary Seneta, who lost to Kajiado East MP Peris Tobiko. Ms Seneta had lodged a petition at the party’s headquarters that was thrown out in favour of Ms Tobiko. Although it is yet to be made public, it is believed that a deal was cut for Ms Seneta to allow her bitter rival to fly the Jubilee flag in Kajiado East. When he rose to speak, Mr Sunkuyia, the Kajiado County Assembly deputy Speaker, reminded Mr Sakuda that he had backed him when he was campaigning to be the Kajiado West MP. SUNKUIYA'S APPEAL “I campaigned for you when you were facing (Prof) Saitoti in 2007. I again backed you when you campaigned and won the seat after Saitoti’s death. "I even supported you in 2013. Why do you find it so hard to back me after I defeated you in the party nominations?” wondered Mr Sunkuyia, adding that he respects Mr Sakuda. When his turn to speak came, Mr Sakuda used a football analogy to refer to the nomination contest. “That was the semi-finals. Allow us to go to the finals,” said Mr Sakuda. “In any case, the fact that one won during the nomination stage does not mean that they are guaranteed a seat in Parliament.” STILL IN JUBILEE Mr Sakuda is yet to formally announce his intention to run as an independent. He has also not resigned from the Jubilee Party. It is said that by threatening to go independent, Mr Sakuda is raising the stakes so that he can increase his political bargaining power. Mr Nkaissery urged Jubilee leaders in Kajiado to put their house in order so that they can wrestle the governor’s position from David Nkedianye of ODM. Also present during the meeting was Kajiado North MP Joseph Manje and nominated MP Janet Teiyaa, who was nominated to vie for the woman rep position on a Jubilee Party ticket, as well as Mr Lenku’s running mate, Martin Moshisho. During the event, a number of incumbent MCAs who were defeated in the party primaries — including Onesmus Ngogoyo (Olkeri), Daniel Kanchori (Oloosirkon Sholike) and Mathew Pere (Rongai) — pledged to remain in Jubilee and back their rivals.  