The national government has announced a plan to employ 150 Kenya Police Reservists (KPR) to secure areas on the Kenya-Somalia border in Mandera County, as it continues with its efforts in promoting safety. Speaking in Mandera town during a Jubilee Party rally, Deputy President William Ruto said the government is committed to improving security in the county. "We are ready to employ 150 KPRs within this month because we want to have a secure Mandera so that people can go on with their daily business uninterrupted," Mr Ruto said. BUILDING OF ROADS The DP said the Jubilee administration always listens to the cries of citizens, especially, those concerning insecurity. "We have never had since independence a high number of security operatives in this county than today, and as Jubilee we shall increase the number of armoured vehicles and police," he added. He said that if President Uhuru Kenyatta is re-elected for a second term, more roads in North Eastern part of the country will be tarmacked. "We are keen on improving our road networks and in the next two weeks the Mandera–Rhamu road will be under construction and in the coming five years all roads in entire region will be tarmacked." LIFT CURFEW Focused on increasing the party's likeability, he said that during Ramadhan the curfew will be lifted. The curfew was imposed on October last year by Interior Cabinet Secretary Joseph Nkaissery after suspected Al-Shabaab militants killed 12 people in a hotel. The 6.30am/6.30pm curfew has affected people living in Mandera Town, Omar Jillo, Arabia, Fino, Lafey Kotulo, Elwak and the environs extending to 20km from the Kenya-Somalia border. The locals, led by Mr Maalim Adan Sheikh, called on the government to lift the curfew restricting night movements to give them adequate time for prayer. "We want the curfew to be lifted so that we can go to mosques for prayers at night because Ramadhan is a month for prayers," he said. FORGET NASA The DP was accompanied by Garissa Township MP Aden Duale, Water Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa, his ICT counterpart Joe Mucheru, and Kabete MP Ferdinand Waititu, among others. Mr Ruto urged the residents to vote back incumbent Governor Ali Roba; and cautioned them against backing the National Super Alliance (Nasa) leaders. He claimed the Raila Odinga-led coalition is only driven by tribalism and greed for power. On the other hand, he said the Jubilee government has strived to deliver to Kenyans in terms of facilitating harmony and development. SNUB ELECTIONS On Nasa'a threat to boycott elections, National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale said opposition leaders have the option of waiting up to 2022 if they are not ready for this year’s General Election. "Whether the Opposition likes it or not, Kenyans will vote on August 8," said. He said Nasa is no longer sincere in its demands for changes in the electoral commission because it had realised that it has lost support among Kenyans. Mr Duale termed demands by the opposition leaders that IEBC involves them in hiring of returning officers as reckless. "Opposition leaders should stop reckless talk over the ongoing reforms at the IEBC because they are not ready for the August elections." ELDERS' ORDER Governor Roba was given the responsibility to head the Jubilee campaign team in the area Accepting the new role, Mr Roba promised to give his competitor a 'run for his money' in the August 8 elections. "Those claiming to be part of us should be ready for a heavy task," Mr Roba said. He opposed calls by Garre Council of Elders to abandon his chase for a second term in office in favour of Mr Hassan Noor Hassan of Economic Freedom Party (EFP), which pledged to support President Kenyatta.  