A glimpse of the looming battle for the Nairobi governor’s position between incumbent Evans Kidero and Senator Mike Sonko in the August General Election played out during Labour Day celebrations at Uhuru Park, Nairobi, today. Buoyed by his recent win of the Jubilee ticket in the party's nominations, Mr Sonko received a rousing welcome from the crowd, which kept chanting his name throughout the celebrations. The flamboyant senator known for his flashy lifestyle also stole the show when over 30 vehicles used by his Sonko Rescue Team drove past the President and other dignitaries amid cheers from the public. Dr Kidero and Mr Sonko are expected to face off in the August 8 General Election in a battle that political pundits have said will be fierce. Dr Kidero received a direct ticket form the Orange Democratic Movement as he did not have a competitor and therefore was not subjected to the gruelling party primaries. When Mr Sonko was invited to speak by the governor, he avoided politics, saying it was not a day of politics but a day to address the plight of the workers. The senator urged President Uhuru Kenyatta to address the soaring price of unga (maize flour), which he said was now beyond the reach of a majority of Kenyans. “Mr President, the price of unga is now too high that these people gathered here can no longer afford it, please address this issue,” Mr Sonko said amid deafening cheers from the crowd. VOTE FOR SAKAJADr Kidero, who spoke as the crowd chanted Mr Sonko’s name, also avoided politics and urged President Uhuru Kenyatta to address the plight of workers. “Life has become unmanageable for most ordinary Kenyans, the price of unga is so high that most workers spend half of their income to buy food,” Dr Kidero said. He, however, said the cost of doing business in Nairobi has gone down because of policies adopted by the county government. The governor said the 18 per cent increase in the minimum wage announced Monday by President Kenyatta must also be reflected in the productivity of workers. During the event, Nairobi senatorial aspirant and nominated MP Johnson Sakaja received a boost in his quest for the seat after Cotu Secretary-General Francis Atwoli urged people to vote for him. “In Nairobi, give me Senator Sakaja. He is my son, he stayed in my house and regardless of the party. Vote for him as the next senator,” he said. ENTERTAINMENTA handful of workers braved the chilly weather in Nairobi for the better part of the day to attend the celebrations at the historic park. Many workers were hoping President Kenyatta would address their plight and increase their minimum wage. Donning different outfits showing where they earn their daily bread, the workers were entertained by different choirs and the "Vitimbi" crew, who staged a play urging workers to choose the leaders they want. But it was the Atwoli Band, named after the Cotu boss, that truly moved the crowd and the dignitaries with their song "Tunataka Amani" (We Want Peace). The "Vitimbi" crew, in their short play, urged employers not to force workers to vote for a particular candidate, saying workers have a constitutional right to vote for a candidate of their choice without being coerced. LEADERS ATTEND EVENTAmong those who joined the boys band in a jig were Mr Atwoli, nominated Senator Beatrice Elachi, Foreign Affairs Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed and Mining Cabinet Secretary Dan Kazungu. A host of Cabinet secretaries and other international dignitaries also attended the celebrations. The Cabinet secretaries included Fred Matiang’i (Education), Jacob Kaimenyi (Lands), Phyllis Kandie (Labour), Joseph Nkaissery (Interior), Adan Mohamed (Industrialization), Raychelle Omamo (Defence), Cecil Kariuki (Youth Affairs) and Attorney-General Githu Muigai.   The city has no sense of wellness, that’s why we allow these smoky junks on the road.