A candidate who is running for Kenya’s presidency as an independent in the August general election, Prof Michael Wainaina, says he has a vision for the youth that he thinks will transform the country into a fully developed nation within one generation. Prof Wainaina, a former literature lecturer at Kenyatta University, has told the Nation that the biggest challenge to the country is the thinking by the political class that the youth are a problem to be solved. “We have a big problem with the political class who have run out of ideas of how to include the youth and so think that the youth are a problem to solve,” he said. Prof Wainaina has a vision which he calls new and transformative leadership. INVEST IN YOUTH He says if he wins the presidency, his vision will see him leapfrog the country into a fully developed nation by investing in the youth and women. “The intention of my campaign is to leapfrog the country to a developed nation. This is doable as one generation is enough to do so as has been witnessed in other developed countries,” he said. He intends to construct skill and talent training centres all over the country to give the youth a chance to hone their skills and as such contribute to the well-being of the country. The 44-year-old Prof Wainaina who hails from Kiambu County, also vehemently denied being anyone’s pawn to try and divide the vote in President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Central Kenya stronghold. Instead, he said he is not into tribal politics. CONFIDENT OF WIN “Those who are looking for tribal kingpins can go look for them elsewhere. I am not running as a Kikuyu but as a Kenyan,” he said. He is confident of clinching victory in August election, saying the reason why everyone campaigns is to win. “We the people of Kenya are in it to win because this is the future of our country, there is new blood, new thinking and we want to make Kenya youthful as the future lies in our youth,” he said. He also accused other leaders, especially those in government, of lying to the youth by coming up with projects that are not sustainable or which hoodwink them into thinking they are being helped. He cited the Kazi Kwa Vijana and the NYS youth initiatives which he said only give young people spades to dig trenches without really equipping them with any useful skills.  