PARIS Garbine Muguruza hailed the incredible longevity of Francesca Schiavone after defeating the veteran Italian in a first-round battle of French Open champions. Spaniard Muguruza, who won her maiden Grand Slam title at Roland Garros last year, swept aside 2010 champion Schiavone 6-2, 6-4 on Monday. "I cannot believe in the first round we have two ex-champions. Not only that but Francesca is a legend and I was very excited to play on Philippe Chatrier court with her," said Muguruza. "She has been on the tour for such a long time, and when I look back on some videos, I heard her name since I'm, like, I don't know how old. "She's still playing. She's fitter than most of the players. I'm, like, how is it possible? I think she loves it. She kind of enjoys out there." The fourth seed admitted Schiavone's surprise 2010 final victory over Sam Stosur was a fond memory. "I saw her match in the final here, and I kind of like it. I was happy that she won the French Open at that time," said Muguruza. However, the 23-year-old doesn't believe she can emulate Schiavone, who turns 37 next month, in terms of a career spanning two decades. "I don't see myself playing at 36 with that shape. I think she has a spectacular body, also, to be able to do that. "I don't know if my body can handle with how many injuries I have, and I'm 23. So it's going to be tough." Schiavone reached the quarter-finals on her French Open debut in 2001, with this year's appearance her 17th in a row in the main draw. A year after winning her lone Grand Slam title, Schiavone returned to the final at Roland Garros only to lose to China's Li Na. The Italian outlined in January her plan to retire at the end of the season, but she conceded there was still a chance she could postpone her farewell. "You never know. For the moment, I want to live this moment this year. I have to see how I feel physically," said the Italian. "You know, it's not easy to wake up and run again for six hours and push yourself. But we will see. I think after US Open I will ask myself what I want to do." Schiavone cited the enduring quality of Venus Williams, who became the oldest Australian Open finalist in the Open era at this year's tournament, as inspiration to keep plugging away. "It's something that you do just step by step, years by years. Can you see Venus that she's playing 20 years here? It's amazing. "It's something I think very special that just if you love the sport you can do it. "Just if you go through problems physically and you keep going to work and push your limits every time, I think it's fantastic. "I see Venus here, and I say, 'Wow', this is a big example for everybody."  