Gilgil Town is slowly giving Naivasha a run for its money in the hospitality industry with classy high profile hotels springing up. The only blot, however, is the persistent traffic jam heading to and from the weighbridge with motorists at times spending hours along the stretch. According to the former Nakuru Chamber of Commerce chairman Njuguna Kamau, the urban centre is benefiting from what he termed as “customer spillover” due to its proximity to Naivasha. He cited the recent devolution conference in Naivasha where virtually all major hotels recorded full capacity with clients opting for Gilgil as the next option. “Any investor with a keen eye will not miss out on such opportunities. The devolution conference was one of its kind, but I can bet many other such opportunities are coming up,” said Mr Kamau. Some of the latest hotels include the reclusive Kika Lodge located at the falling Gilgil hills and rugged savannah as well as Sentrim Elementaita Lodge among others. A real estate adviser Vivian Ng’endo said the hospitality industry in Gilgil has generally benefited from the “Naivasha overflow.” “Most of the customers I encountered said they could not get accommodation in Naivasha and that tells the story,” she said. Ms Ng’endo said most investors are going into real estate. Mr Kamau said with Naivasha enjoying international limelight in the hospitality industry, investors are looking at the next option, which happens to be Gilgil. Investors are cashing in on the lull of yesteryears to acquire parcels of land at affordable prices in prime places within Gilgil. “The land price in Gilgil only shot up recently, but remains comparatively cheap compared to Naivasha,” said Mr Kamau, he cited stiff competition between players in the hospitality industry in Naivasha as some of the factors influencing the choice of Gilgil as the next investment frontier. “We can argue that Naivasha is now over populated and it’s the high time investors weigh options in order to reap maximum benefits,” said the former chamber boss. “Naivasha has scored many firsts, including being ranked by International Congresses and Convection Association; the natural question for investors should be what the next available option is,” he said.Mr Kamau said with many security installations in Gilgil, the town enjoys relative peace. Gilgil MP Mathenge Ndiritu admitted that the fortunes of the town have changed with enquiries through his office rising. “Some of the investors are personally calling me to enquire about the available investment opportunities especially in the hospitality industry,” said the lawmaker. He, however, voiced concerns over the persistent traffic jams at Gilgil weighbridge on the Naivasha-Nakuru highway, especially on weekends. “We are talking of the country losing millions of shillings in man-power and man hours,” said the MP. Mr Mathenge called on the government to find a lasting solution to the traffic menace. “Given that some of these vehicles carry perishable goods what are we doing to our economy?” He posed.  