Q. I graduated in 2014 with a BCom (Purchasing & Procurement) and I am currently pursuing a post graduate Diploma in Tax Management. I am working with an events industry as a stores’ manager. I have been looking for a breakthrough especially in the procurement field to no avail. I have applied for many jobs but I have only gotten two responses, which were unsuccessful. Am I not good enough? I have big dreams but it doesn’t seem to be easy as I thought it would be. Do I still cling on to my dwindling hopes?  You express frustration with the experience of having made several unsuccessful attempts at applying for jobs. This is common, especially early in one’s career when the required competencies in a desired field are limited. It is positive though that you possess qualifications in procurement, a component without which it would be hard to reach your career aspirations. Various factors could contribute to your situation. Have you sought to understand the practical dimension of procurement from a professional in the field? You may benefit from a mentor’s guidance on what it would take you to start a career in procurement besides academic awareness and professional qualifications. You could also reap useful experience from offering procurement services pro bono to a club, church, small business or an association to which you or a friend belongs. Have you sought advice on how to draft your cover letters and CV? What about how to present yourself in interviews? And are you aware of how others perceive you as you interact with them? Take keen interest in self-awareness. Seek and exploit feedback on elements of your attitude that could help to build or undermine your career. Furthermore, work to actively expand a network of helpful acquaintances through whom you may come across career opportunities. Some of your greatest career opportunities lie in your hands. How you treat your current job may very well be the interview for your next role. Let your supervisor know that you seek to do more than you have been assigned and, if possible, propose procurement activities that you could carry out alongside your existing duties.   