A Jubilee MP defeated in the just concluded party nominations has denied claims he is leading a group of other losers to revolt against Deputy President William Ruto. Dagoretti South MP Denis Waweru, who had initially announced his bid to vie for the Nairobi governorship but later changed his mind, has dismissed the claims making the rounds on social media that he had met the nomination losers to plot Mr Ruto’s downfall. The reports claim the politicians, largely from Mt Kenya, accuse the DP of interfering in the party’s nominations. The reports also claim that the group is plotting to defect from Jubilee and form their own outfit. Kiambu Governor William Kabogo, former Gatanga MP Peter Kenneth, Kigumo MP Jamleck Kamau, Nyeri Woman Rep Priscilla Nyokabi, Starehe MP aspirant Charles Kanyi, aka Jaguar, Runyenjes MP Cecily Mbarire, Murang'a Senator James Kembi Gitura and Waweru have been mentioned as part of the disgruntled group. But Mr Waweru has pointed an accusing finger at the opposition National Super Alliance (Nasa) for the claims. 'MALICIOUS' INFORMATION Without offering evidence, Mr Waweru argued that the reports were intended to drive a wedge between President Kenyatta's Mt Kenya region and Mr Ruto's Rift Valley. “I am not aware of any meeting that took place on Sunday in a city hotel. I was not part of any meeting and those people trying to link me [to] such kind of malicious, false information should stop from trying to divide Jubilee,” said Mr Waweru. In the post seen by the Nation, Mr Waweru is quoted as having said that Mr Ruto had planted his favourite people for various seats with the aim of banking on them as he eyes the Presidency in 2022. “[He] has bitten more than he can chew…,” reads a statement attributed to the Dagoretti MP. The MP called upon other party aspirants who had lost to throw their weight behind the winners so Jubilee can secure a majority of seats in the August polls. But Mr Waweru, whose fall to comedian John Kiarie in the primaries shocked many, said he would announce his next move later.  