Q. I have worked as a marketer for two years for an automobile company since I graduated in 2014. Whereas colleagues have been going on vacation, some even twice in six months, I have never taken a break. Each time I request for one, I am told to first deliver twice as much work as I normally do to compensate for the duration that I will be away, which ideally makes the leave unattainable. How do I go about this?  The concept of leave has evolved through centuries from the puritan era of religion when taking a break from work for reasons other than weekly observance of the Sabbath was frowned upon and considered idleness. Employers are required by law to provide a minimum of 21 days of leave a year for every worker. The issue at hand is therefore when, not whether you should take your annual leave. Research has shown that besides its restorative value, taking leave could also support employee performance. This is especially so when employees resume duty from leave after having digitally unplugged from work. It is also in the interest of the business that employees take leave as cases of presenteeism, where employees are at work but hardly functioning, have at times been costlier than the obvious drain of absenteeism. Working for three years without leave could undermine your health, hence the ability to work productively. The risk of upsetting your bosses by bringing up the conversation about leave is immaterial compared with the one to which you subject your wellbeing by not confronting the situation. Consider requesting a meeting with your supervisor during which you raise the matter, indicating how working without leave has affected you and how in turn the business is losing the opportunity to tap into your full engagement and optimal performance. In case your supervisor does not assent to your request, it is advisable to consult with your HR department for advice and appropriate intervention. Bear in mind that although annual leave is your right as an employee, its timing needs to accommodate your convenience as well as business exigencies. Alignment with your supervisor is therefore essential.  