Q.I work for an organisation based in Nakuru. For the two years I have worked here, our department has had four changes of supervisors. It takes a while for me to adjust to new strategies that every new boss comes with. I also need someone around who I can build my trust, and learn to grow in my career, but this environment is simply not offering that to me. What can I do?  Change is inevitable in any organisation and therefore as an employee, you should be flexible and prepared at all times.  However, frequent changes are disruptive and hinder continuity of projects in the respective department. This could be a symptom of a chronic problem within the organisation. It could be an issue of supervisors having unclear job description and span of authority resulting into the frequent departures. While I empathise with your situation, you should realise that you are an employee with your own merits and competencies which should not be affected by the change of supervisor. Each supervisor may bring in different management styles, but the strategy should be independent of the supervisor. The strategy is a periodic plan that gives guidance and direction to an organisation to ensure business sustainability. An effective strategy should outlive change in management. It’s imperative for the management to ensure that all the employees understand the strategy so that they can in turn work towards its achievement. If this is done, the situation you are in will not happen since your objectives will be geared towards achieving the strategy irrespective of the change of supervisors. There is a belief that career growth of an individual is the responsibility of HR and line management. On the contrary, I always tell employees who I interact with that “your career is in your own hands”. Signs that you are ready for more challenging responsibilities is the ability to perform your current role beyond the expected standards and start asking your boss for more stretch assignments. Career growth is also not always a promotion, it could be addition of more challenging and stretch responsibilities. Therefore, change in supervisor should not be misconstrued to signal end of your career growth.  