Q. I am an underwriter at an insurance company. This business has outstanding repute and holds sway in the local market and even among industry rivals, and is the envy of many. But the sad truth is that employees are treated dismally and constantly threatened with sacking. The pay is poor, and working conditions are hostile. Ironically, the firm spends millions of shillings every year for publicity. Please advise me because I am tired of this pretence.  I do not know how long you have been in this company, or whether this is your first job or how you joined the organisation, but all these have a bearing to answering your question. If you have been there for long, there is a good reason that has made you stay  despite the challenges. This means you have needs that are being met, from advancing your career, gaining work experience, training, networks to even financial needs, despite the poor pay. You need to set you career goals and decide how long you are going to work for an employer you are not connected to as this is likely to reflect in your performance. And there will be consequences. If this is your first employer and the job and company is not close to what you imagined, you need to voice your concerns in an objective manner before you lose interest in an employer who has great potential in building your future career. So instead of sitting back and joining the pity party, be proactive and engage your management. The kind of an organisation you describe must have channels of escalating and resolving grievances for a better work environment. If you give up too quickly, the short work stint may reflect badly in your resume and put off potential employers. In every disorganised organisation, there are managers who seek to do good and grow their subordinates despite internal challenges. If you have an enabling manager, focus on your short-term career goals before you seek a new environment. In your working life, there will be opportunities to change jobs and work for different employers as you navigate your career. Some employers we see around with strong brands sometimes have very disengaged employees, seeking every opportunity to get out. Just as employers check your reference before hiring you, it is now necessary to do your research before changing jobs, investigate the kind of culture you would be joining and be sure it will enable your career goals.  Got feedback on this story? Email lifeandstyle@ke.nationmedia.com  