An initiative that seeks to ensure that school going children across the country take breakfast before going to school kicked off Wednesday at Nairobi Primary School. The initiative, which is being spearhead by Unilever Kenya and the Ministry of Education will run for one month in different schools across the country. Unilever Marketing Director, Antony Esyalai said this year the programme has set out to reach 1.5 million children in 600 schools. Last year, the initiative reached 1.25 million children in 510 schools through an interactive and fun nutrition education program. The target is to reach five million school going children by 2020. “We are excited to embark on this year’s school programme, a campaign that will not only impart children with important knowledge on good breakfast, but also contribute to the government’s efforts to improve the nutritional status of Kenyans,” said Mr Esyalai during the launch. “To achieve this we need a behaviour change campaign to raise awareness on the importance of a good breakfast and the role it can play in alleviating malnutrition and promotion of a child’s wellbeing and good breakfast campaign is a good starting point,” said Prof Judith Kimiywe, a lecturer at Kenyatta University, Food and Nutrition department. DIET Micronutrient deficiencies may have adverse effects on children’s growth and development. According to Kenya Medical Association (KMA) Chief executive officer Dr Bosire Otieno, most children skip the morning meal yet it is the most essential for growth and also mental performance. “This is an important programme with a goal to educate children who are the change agents on the importance of a good breakfast, which is the cornerstone of good health and excelling in life,” said Dr Otieno who is also a member of the Good Breakfast Alliance. Dr Otieno observed that nine out 10 children in Kenya do not have access to a balanced diet. STUNTING “Nutrition plays a key role in academic performance for children and this is important and we must support this alliance by Unilever. We cannot sit and watch our children not achieve their best because of what we can do – provide a good breakfast,” added Dr Otieno. According to a recent study by TNS, a leading research organisation in Africa, the average breakfast of most Kenyan families is deficient of essential nutrients. Some of the reasons cited by this research that contribute to inadequate breakfast are time constraint, limited knowledge on importance of breakfast and inability to embrace variety of foods for breakfast. According to studies, the global prevalence of stunting—when a child is too short for his age—has decreased over the past decades, however, still 161 million children under the age of five years are stunted. The Kenya Demographic and Health Survey (KDHS), (2014) states that 26 per cent of the under five children are stunted, 11 per cent underweight and four per cent wasted. Stunting rates are highest at 36 per cent in children aged 18-23 months and lowest at 10 per cent in children aged less than six months.  