The National Land Commission (NLC) is on the spot over suspected fraudulent payments for land taken over by the government to build the new railway line that is nearing completion. Initial complaints against the commission were presented to Parliament a few weeks ago but the matters have not been conclusively resolved. Yesterday, Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission officials raided the homes of the top officials of the commission and reportedly obtained some colossal sums of money in one of them. Raids and purported exhibits obtained do not necessarily mean the officials are guilty; that has to be proved by the courts. IRREGULAR COMPENSATIONHowever, the information in the public domain is that up to Sh1 billion may have been paid out irregularly in compensation for land compulsorily acquired for the Standard Gauge Railway. The Lands ministry is on record stating that huge sums of money were lost through dubious compensation that took various forms – inflated land prices, paying individuals for government land, double payments or paying fictitious individuals. The commission is an independent institution created by the Constitution to redress grave malpractices in management of public land. It took over powers once wielded by the Lands ministry, which has the dubious distinction of presiding over the plunder of public land through political manipulation. The NLC was intended to be the cure; restore sanity and lead lands reforms insulated from political interference and guided by professional edicts. PUBLIC CONFIDENCE It has several times fought off attempts by the political establishment to control and manipulate its operations. And that gave it some credibility and inspired public confidence. This new development is a major dent in the image of the NLC in its bid to push through the envisaged reforms. It also taints the SGR project, with the perception being created that the land acquisition deal was fishy and part of a plan to embezzle public funds. The EACC must conduct thorough investigations to get to the root of the matter and determine if there was fraud and those culpable must face the law.  