It is 52 years since I first took on my first media job, as a news translator and reader for the then-newly launched Uganda Television (UTV) station. I had done some freelance broadcasting previously, but that was my first real hot-seating in mass communication.Such memories underline how fast time passes. Do you realise, for example, that as you read this, you and I have entered our fourth year of writing and reading this column? We have cause for celebration. For me, I feel overwhelmed with gratefulness for your love and faithfulness.I know that what keeps you reading me every weekend is not a lack of reading material, in this world inundated with texts and documents. Rather, I think, it is the expectation that we have some memory, thought or impression worth sharing.This means the world to me. I am increasingly conscious that I would be disappointing you if I were to default and fail to deliver as required. The feeling has even had a therapeutic effect on me. On some of those occasions when I feel quite under the weather , I have to remind myself that I just cannot afford to let the side down by not filing the week s read.So, let us toast to our formidable reader-writer relationship. I have mentioned to you somewhere the belief among many knowledgeable people that, in the writing process, the reader is more important than the writer. So, you are both the celebration and the main celebrant in the eventful history of your column.As for me, maybe I should just share with you a few of my other recent poignant memories that were also celebrations of a sort. You remember that one of my secrets of longevity is celebration. This does not necessarily mean eating, drinking, dancing and ear-splitting music . Rather, it is the genuine relish of gratefulness for the many small mercies of life , as I have heard my colleague and friend, Professor Lawrence Kiiru, call them.One of the sweetest moments of my recent experience was the announcement of this year s Africa Centre Bellagio Artists Residency awards. These are opportunities granted to practising writers and other creative people to spend an all-expenses paid month at the Rockefeller Foundation s Centre in Bellagio, Italy, to enable them to complete work in progress.Maybe I should have received the news with a twinge of regret, as I have been urged for years to apply for one of these residencies but I have never got round to doing so. The reason I never took the easy step, even in the face of firm assurances from people with influence out there, is sheer laziness, not to say negligence.This is all the more embarrassing as I know Bellagio well, and I have unreserved admiration for it as an inspiring location for creative work. I actually spent two group residencies there in the early 2000s, working with the editorial team of the Feminist Press s Women Writing Africa series. But my regret is far outweighed by the joy I felt at the realisation that prominent among the latest winners of the Residencies were Doreen Baingana, Mshai Mwangola and Njabulo Ndebele. All three are not only eminent literati but also close acquaintances with whom I share quite a few dear memories. I doubt if I can think of a more deserving trio to be in Bellagio.Among the three, the dearest to me is, of course, my friend and disciple , the oraturist , Dr Mshai Mwangola. She first came to my notice at Kenyatta University, when, under the direction of David Mulwa, she gave an unforgettable interpretation of Namvua, the leading character in my play, The Bride. She went on to perfect her theatre and oral communication skills at the Northwestern University, where she also did a lot to promote African drama. I last caught up with her in Nairobi when she was doing crucial work in the establishment of the Aga Khan University in East Africa.Ugandan Doreen Baingana was the 2006 winner of the Commonwealth Literature Prize, best first book in Africa. I happened to be on the panel, together with Mary Kolawole of Nigeria and Joyce Kapastula of Malawi, that selected her for the prize. I did not know her personally then, and our selection of her was based solely on the quality of her collection of short stories, Tropical Fish, that vividly portrays the struggles of young women growing up in Uganda during its many troubled years. I was to find out later that she was actually a member of FEMRITE, of which I have often told you.Closely related to my Commonwealth Literature Prize memories, too, is Professor Njabulo Simakahle Ndebele, best known for his first collection of short stories, Fools and Other Stories. I first met this delightful South African gentleman in Harare in 1987, where Ama Ata Aidoo, our beloved literary matriarch, had invited us to judge with her the year s African entries. That is where we awarded the prize to Tsitsi Dangarembga s iconic novel, Nervous Conditions.That Harare outing is particularly memorable for me because it marked my return to the international scene, after a 10-year break following my escape from Idi Amin s Uganda. I am some four years older that Njabulo Ndebele but we got on smoothly together, like proper agemates. But, unlike me, he was to strike out on a brilliant scholarly and academic administrative career, serving as Vice-Chancellor and Chancellor of a couple of leading South African universities.Well, if he can make it to Bellagio at this stage, maybe it is not too late for me either.Incidentally, I am also profusely celebrating the defeat of Marine le Pen at the French Presidential elections. Much as I would like to see deserving strong and qualified women become leaders, even Presidents, I would hate to see a fascist, racist, xenophobic bigot, male or female, become a leader.The French people acquitted themselves well against such a tragic possibility. Vive la France! Prof Bukenya is one of the leading scholars of English and Literature in East Africa. abubwase- @yahoo.com email print email print