MADRID A Lionel Messi masterclass salvaged some silverware to end Barcelona's season and gave coach Luis Enrique a victorious send-off as the Catalans retained the Copa del Rey with a 3-1 win over Alaves on Saturday. Messi opened the scoring then helped tee up Neymar and Paco Alcacer to lead Barca to a record 29th Cup triumph after Theo Hernandez's brilliant free-kick had briefly brought Alaves level. Victory means Enrique bows out after three seasons in charge with nine trophies to his name, including the Cup in every year of his reign. However, once again it was Messi who inspired Barca to bounceback from the disappointment of losing their La Liga title to Real Madrid last weekend with a stunning individual display. "He is extraordinary, an extraterrestrial," said Enrique of Messi. "I have had the opportunity to enjoy the best of Messi, at his peak athletic performance. "He is the number one as he shows in his performances and it has been a true pleasure." Alaves boss Mauricio Pellegrino was equally in awe of the five-time World Player of the Year. "He is an out of the ordinary player," said Pellegrino. "He has the ability to create goals as well as score them with the precision of his passing." Barca were without the suspended Luis Suarez and Sergi Roberto and Enrique was forced into another reshuffle just 11 minutes in as Javier Mascherano was forced off with a head injury. Yet, while Barca's depth has been much-criticised this season, Andre Gomes deputised ably at right-back after replacing Mascherano and Alcacer took his chance on a rare start on the big stage in Suarez's absence. In stark contrast to Barca's glorious run of six finals in seven years, Alaves were appearing in Spanish football's showpiece for the first time. The Basques were roared on by the more enthusiastic support at a far from full Vicente Calderon in its last competitive fixture before Atletico Madrid move home next season. And Alaves were left wondering what might have been had they gone ahead when Ibai Gomez's effort came back off the post, ricocheted off the back of Barca 'keeper Jasper Cillessen but somehow squirmed along the goal line and not in