Lamu Governor Issa Timamy has accused his key rival, Jubilee Party’s Fahim Twaha, of stealing his manifesto instead of being creative enough to come with his own. Mr Twaha is among the four candidates set to face Mr Timamy in the governorship race in the August 8 elections. Others are Engineer Swaleh Imu (Wiper), Mr Abdalla Fadhil (ODM) and Mr Eliud Ndung’u Kinuthia of PNU. Addressing residents at Kizingitini in Lamu East on Tuesday, an agitated Mr Timamy told Mr Twaha to stop quoting his exact manifesto whenever he is doing his campaigns. Mr Timamy had in an earlier event pledged to ensure all madrassa teachers in the county are paid by the county government. SAME PLEDGE The governor said he was shocked that Mr Twaha made the exact same pledge when he visited Kizingitini on Saturday. Mr Timamy criticised Mr Twaha for using the promises he has already made to Lamu people and questioned what his intentions are. He said for the last five years, the county government under his leadership has strived to have madrassa teachers paid salaries but each time the idea is presented in the Lamu County Assembly, it is rejected by MCAs. He accused Mr Twaha of not bringing any tangible development in the county even after being MP for Lamu West for 15 years. Mr Timamy said his key target is to ensure the madrassa teachers are employed permanently by the county government if he is re-elected for a second term. REJECTED BY MCAS “I have tried for the past five years to have our Muslim madrassa teachers paid salaries by the county government but the idea has been receiving opposition from the MCAs each time a motion is presented [in] the county assembly. I have heard that my opponents are now making you think it is them [who will] employ madrassa teachers once [they are] elected. You should not be swayed. I have tried and I will ensure that happens once I am re-elected even if it means seeking donor assistance. “I want to tell my opponent (Mr) Twaha to be real and genuine in the promises he makes to the people of Lamu instead of sniffing what I have to say and re-pledging it,” said Mr Timamy. WITCH HUNT Mr Timamy also accused some of the Lamu governorship aspirants of political witch hunt. The governor called for peace and calm during the campaign period and urged locals to elect leaders who have a clear vision for the county and those who are in touch with the challenges at the grassroots. “Don’t allow yourselves to be divided by politics. Politicians will come with all sorts of words but remember Lamu is bigger than any individual’s personal interests. Let’s go for leaders who know our problems and who have been there throughout,” said Mr Timamy.  