Biko Nyongesa played villain called ‘Superpower 2’ in the first season of the internationally acclaimed television show Sense8. He admits it was an eye opening experience. He sat down with Buzz and tells why he wants to be behind the camera rather than in front of it. As an actor, he has appeared on several series like Tabasamu and Higher Learning and featured in films; Haifai Kitu, Grand Mistakes, Ties that Bind and Shattered among many others. “When I went for the audition of Sense8 I couldn’t believe the professionalism on the set and it was a joy because I beat people who had been in the industry since I was in school to get the role and play a villain,” he says. “Unfortunately I did not get to travel a lot like the main characters, but I got to see parts of Nairobi that I had never seen. The show opened my eyes and I got to learn a lot from the international crew. I learned how to grow.” Biko was born in Mukumu, Kakamega and raised by a single mother who was a teacher at Mukumu Primary School. After high school, he moved to Nairobi and started on his quest to make it in showbiz. “I tried to be a singer and recorded a song with Swish boy featuring Lulu after struggling to raise money for studio time,” he recalls. He had started harbouring the music dream while in school and even started to write songs he hoped he would release and would be major hits. But all he got was a scolding from the teachers. “I remember one day in form two I was in front of the class making jokes and I didn’t realise the teacher was standing outside looking at me through the window,” he says. “Later at the end of the term the teacher wrote on my report card that I was a joker which got me punished by my mother.” He ditched music and started pursuing his real love once he joined Kenyatta University. “One of my toughest part as an actor was when I played a drunk in a film called Fallen Hero. It was tough because it was my first time playing a drunk. I had to bring out a different kind of drunk who doesn’t shout out aloud nor stager. A quiet drunk. But the role got me some good feedback,” he remembers. The need to inspire others is one thing that inspires Biko and allows others to get the shine while be stays in the background. “That is why I prefer to have my actors get the spotlight. I do not do interviews and that is why I choose mostly to be behind the scenes as a director.” When it comes to life away from film, Biko says; “I’m dating and I would one day would love to have a big family. I have 82 cousins and half of them are married and I don’t see why I shouldn’t. I’m the second born of seven children.” He will be screening his latest film Get Some Money on June 3 at The Elephant.  