Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya has said he is ready to face his opponents in the August elections and expressed confidence he will retain his seat. Speaking during a funds drive dinner towards his re-election bid at Leopard Beach Hotel in Diani, Mr Mvurya said his development record speaks for itself. Mr Mvurya, who decamped from ODM and joined the Jubilee party, said he did not make a mistake “because I saw the trouble ahead and I wanted development for my people in the government”. The well-attended function was graced by former Managing Director of Kenya Airports Authority George Muhoho and Kenya National Union of Teachers (Knut) Chairman Mudzo Nzili and hundreds of businessmen. Mr Mvurya said his performance speaks for itself and urged voters to give him a second term in order to continue with the ongoing projects he had initiated. “For the four years I have been governor, development has been realised in Kwale County. As we speak today, 2,801 students from Kwale studying in national secondary schools are receiving 100 per cent county bursary up from 258 in 2013/14,” he said. BENEFITS He said his joining the ruling party had resulted to extra benefits and cited the Sh70 million released for the construction of Mkwakwani Primary School that was relocated to pave way for the expansion of the Ukunda airstrip, infrastructure and other development projects. “There is a task force undertaking feasibility study for the establishment of Shimoni port. We have received Sh400 million for Msambweni hospital and Sh250 million to set up an intensive care unit and develop Kwale and Kinango hospitals,” he said. He said before the end of the year, several roads in the area including the Samburu-Kinango-Kwale and Shimoni roads will be tarmacked. These projects will open up tourism in the county, he said. “Diani beach has been declared the best in Africa successively since 2013 because of good environmental management by the county,” he said. He urged voters to elect leaders who will bring change and improve their livelihoods and not to vote along political party lines. HAILED MVURYA Mr Nzili hailed Governor Mvurya for a good development record, saying the county needs managers to deal with the myriad of problems facing the people. “Other governors in Coast do not like Mvurya because they are jealous of his performance,” said Mr Nzili, adding that this has been bolstered by the recruitment of qualified public service officers who apply professionalism in their work. Deputy Governor Fatuma Achani urged voters in the area to shun candidates who use the tribal tag to seek votes. “They are using tribalism to divide the voters. Ignore them and elect people who will unite us and bring development like (Governor) Salim Mvurya,” she said. Mr Muhoho hailed Mr Mvurya’s leadership which he termed as “exemplary and visionary” and urged the people of Kwale to vote in credible leaders. He also urged Kwale residents to vote for President Uhuru Kenyatta and his Deputy William Ruto, adding that the Jubilee administration is determined to make Kenya an industrialised nation.  