Kilifi governor Amason Kingi has named a former Trade executive Gideon Saburi as his running mate. Mr Saburi was officially unveiled outside the governor’s office on Wednesday. Senator Stewart Madzayo, woman representative Aisha Jumwa and Rabai MP William Kamoti attended the short event. Mr Kingi said that he had settled on Mr Saburi following extensive consultations with the residents. Mr Kingi fell out with his deputy Kenneth Kamto who defected to Jubilee Party. Mr Kamto will now be JP gubernatorial aspirant Gideon Mung'aro's running mate. Mr Kingi said: “You all know that in the last two years I was forced to run this county alone after my deputy (Kenneth Kamto) lost focus on the vision that we had. “But today after searching and consulting widely on who to be my second in command, I have settled on someone who shares with me the same vision, zeal and ambitions to propel and develop Kilifi,” he said. Mr Saburi, a civil engineer, served as Mr Kingi’s first county executive member in charge of Roads, Transport and Public Works, before being moved to Tourism and Co-operatives development then to ICT, Culture and Social Service docket. Mr Saburi exuded confidence that the National Super Alliance (Nasa) and its presidential candidate Raila Odinga will win the August election. “This is a huge responsibility that I have been given but we are ready for the task and this journey that we have embarked on is one that we are going to win,” said Mr Saburi. Clad in a white shirt christened “Saburi”, he emerged from the governor’s office, hugged the governor and immediately addressed the residents where he accepted to be the governor’s running mate. His appointment was endorsed by several Kilifi groups, ranging from Kilifi professionals, the clergy and kaya elders. Mr Kingi claimed that some influential government officials had written to the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) demanding them not to clear him and Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho. “This was to stop me and my colleague from vying for the gubernatorial posts due to our firm position in the Opposition and telling the truth concerning bad Jubilee leadership,” he said adding that “we already know their plans.” Governor Kingi who will be vying under the ODM party ticket, will on Thursday present his nomination papers at Kilifi IEBC offices for clearance and later hold a rally at Kilifi Water grounds. “They have used all means to stop us from vying come August 8, but we want to tell Jubilee to search victory in the ballot not on letters and use of force,” said Mr Kingi. But the IEBC North Coast regional coordinator Amina Soud together with Kilifi County returning officer Nelly Ilongo dismissed the claims saying they have not received any letter. “The governor should not be afraid since we shall follow the law to the latter and we are not going to follow any letters ordering us to exercise our mandate against the law,” said Ms Soud.  