Germany have predicted a tough but exciting test match against their hosts Kenya Simbas on Saturday from 4pm at the RFUEA grounds.The visitors' coach Kobus Potgieter said that even though the high altitude could play a great role in the match, he is confident that his experienced side will rise up to the occasion and put in a good fight. We have watched several of their video clips and Kenya looks a pretty good side especially when they have the ball. We shall have to work hard to keep possession, said Potgieter, who called on rugby fans to turn out in numbers to see that Germans are not just good in football.Potgieter noted that even though some of his players, who are based in European will struggle with the altitude, they should be able to adopt to the conditions as the match proceeds. Most have played together for long and this will count. German coach Kobus Potgieter barks instructions to his charges at Rugby Football Union of East Africa grounds in Nairobi on May 26, 2017. PHOTO | MARTIN MUKANGU |The squad has two players based in South Africa, three, who are plying their trade in France and one in England.Among the players who are based in South Africa are centre Marcel Coetzee (Sharks) and hooker Dasch Barber (False Bay) while prop J rn Schr der plays for Luctonians in England. Those plying their trade in France are scrum-half Tim Menzel (Strasbourg), fly-half Christopher Hilsenbeck (Colomiers) and prop Samy F chsel (Albi).Potgieter noted that experience gained from the ongoing Europe Rugby Championship that started in February should help them against Kenya. They have won two matches against Romania (41-38) and Belgium (34-29) but lost three to Georgia (6-50), Spain (15-32) and Russia (25-52).Germany are placed 25th in the World Rugby rankings, two place below Kenya.Kenya Simbas head coach Jerome Paarwater named a strong side for Saturday s encounter, slotting skipper Wilson K Opondo and Simon Muniafu at lock positions while Eric Kerre and David Chenge will wear number 6 and 7 shirts.Biko Adema returns to the team at fly-half, Samson Onsumu is at scrum-half.Back from long term injury Jacob Ojee and deputy skipper Darwin Mukidza are at the wings giving the flanks pace and guile. Tony Onyango will man the full back position. Experienced Patrice Agunda and David Ambunya are the two backs in midfield. We know they have a hefty pack but we are ready to dismantle it with good all-round play, said Mukidza, who was declared man-of-the-match during Spain and Portugal test matches. "We have an experienced side that is able to adjust to any conditions, said Mukidza. email print email print Kenya Harlequin second row Wilson K'Opondo will captain the team.