Turbo, the rural home of Deputy President William Ruto, will be a place to watch in this year’s General Election. This despite the battle for the constituency seat being somehow reduced to a Luhya-Kalenjin affair. The duel pits businessman and educationist Kevin Okwara of Jubilee Party against at least two Kalenjin aspirants, one independent and another from the Orange Democratic Movement (ODM). During the just concluded Jubilee Party primaries, there were 16 aspirants, all Kalenjins and among them the current MP Elisha Busienei competing with Mr Okwara. Mr Okwara emerged top with 5,509 votes against his closest rival, Ms Janet Sitienei Koech, who garnered 4,816 votes while Mr Busienei was third with 4,579 votes. It is said that Mr Okwara’s win did not go down well with some aspirants who wondered how an “outsider” could clinch the seat at the expense of the locals. In fact, there was a delay in issuing Mr Okwara with his Jubilee Party nomination certificate, sparking a public outcry in the region. It was reported that Mr Ruto personally intervened and ordered that Mr Okwara be declared the winner, in order to break the stalemate. TIGHT SECURITY Following the intervention, the nominee was escorted under tight security to Uasin Gishu Primary School, where he was announced the winner. Anti-riot police officers were called in to help the returning officer, Mr Barnabas Kongwalei, announce the winner, amid protests from other aspirants and their supporters who camped outside the school’s gate, saying they would not accept Mr Okwara’s victory. Tension was high in Eldoret following the announcement with a section of aspirants opposed to Mr Okwara’s win. President Uhuru Kenyatta and Mr Ruto were reportedly informed about the tension in parts of Eldoret over Mr Okwara’s win, but the two stood their ground and directed that Mr Okwara be declared the winner. The results had been delayed for two more days after all other vote outcomes from across the county had been released. “I am happy democracy has prevailed. I was voted for by all communities, including Kalenjins, Kikuyus and Luhyas, and this win is not for any particular individual,” said Mr Okwara after receiving he Jubilee ticket. He added: “My only mistake was that I vied for the seat in Uasin Gishu instead of my home county of Busia. I’m happy this has been sorted out.” On Tuesday, he reiterated his commitment to Jubilee and vowed to fight to win the seat in August. 'JOIN HANDS' He extended an olive branch to his erstwhile rivals for the Jubilee ticket. “I congratulate the incumbent and all the other 16 aspirants for putting up a commendable political fight. I invite them to join hands with me in building the Jubilee party in Uasin Gishu County,” Mr Okwara told the Nation. However, his battle is far from over after Ms Sitienei, who came second to him in the primaries, decided to vie as an independent candidate. She is said to have the support of all the other Kalenjin aspirants who lost in the primaries. Political analysts in the region feel that the Kalenjins’ move to field many candidates for the seat in the primaries may have cost them as they split the votes to the advantage of Mr Okwara. “They might have learned the hard way. That’s why all the other candidates have decided to support Ms Sitienei,” said Mr Edwin Biwott, a political analyst in the region. Also eyeing the parliamentary seat is Mr David Songok, a Kalenjin, on the Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) ticket. He was second to Busienei in the 2013 General Election and has said he had bigger chances to win the seat despite the region being a Jubilee zone. PROMINENT BUSINESSMAN Mr Okwara, a prominent businessman, owns the Noble Conference Hotel and Alphax College in Eldoret and Corporate Media Television. He says that his interest in the National Assembly seat was due to the fact he has vast property in Turbo, where he owns huge chunks of land in areas such as Chepsaita, Kahoya, Road Block and Huruma. Mr Okwara, 48, holds a degree in Mathematics from Kenyatta University. He is married to Jane Ndubi and is a father of two sons aged 20 and 21. “My main area of focus for the people of Turbo is education and empowerment of the youth especially those in slum areas. I will also ensure water is available for all residents,” Mr Okwara told the Nation. He said: “Eldoret is expanding and we want to make Huruma a business hub by taking advantage of Eldoret Airport, which is currently under-utilised,”. However, as Mr Okwara is struggling to gain recognition in Turbo, another Kenyan of Asian origin has widely been accepted and is on his way to being elected MP in the Kalenjin region. Dr Swarup Mishra, the owner of Mediheal Group of hospitals, won the Jubilee primaries for Kesses parliamentary seat after garnering 21,672 votes against his close rival, Uasin Gishu county Assembly speaker Isaac Terer, who got 4,258. The incumbent, James Bett, was trailing with 2,218 votes. The outspoken obstetric gynaecologist has declared that he will direct his salary to a fund for supporting needy residents. “My salary will go to the constituency kitty to help poor people,” Dr Mishra told the Nation.  