Politicians and security agents have been named as some of biggest threats to media freedom in Kenya, even as the entire world celebrated World Press Freedom Day. The country is set to hold its General Election in August, but in the run-up to the vote, numerous cases have been reported of journalists being harassed, some beaten up while others have even lost their lives in the line of duty at the hands of politicians, security forces and State agents. “As we celebrate this day, our thoughts go to the families and relatives of journalists who have paid the ultimate price in the service of the cause of public interest,” said Mr Linus Kaikai the chair of the Editors’ Guild. He added that last year, five attacks on journalists were reported at political functions, whereas four attacks have so far been reported since January. The theme for this year’s event was ‘Critical Minds for Critical Times: Media’s Role in Advancing Peaceful, Just and Inclusive Societies’. ELECTIONS PEACEFUL Mr Kaikai pointed out that whereas elections in the country are normally peaceful, problems always crop up during the tallying of votes. “So in this prayer for peaceful elections, I come to the defence of the innocent and peaceful Kenyan voter who will wake up early on August 8 to cast his vote and retreat home to follow the tallying on television,” he said. Information minister Joe Mucheru, however, affirmed the government’s support for press freedom in the country. “We adopted a liberal Constitution that protects everyone including journalists. As a country and an emerging democracy in Africa, we will not allow ourselves to harass or gag the media,” said Mr Mucheru. But even as the Cabinet secretary insisted on the government’s commitment and the steps taken to promote press freedom, Kenya Union of Journalists Secretary-General Eric Odour said the union had filed several lawsuits in court against security agents and politicians. FACING ASSAULT CHARGES“As we are talking right now, we have taken several people to court and they are facing assault charges,” he said. Mr Oduor further said that it is high time the media and government pooled resources to formulate policies that promote press freedom and protect journalists from their employers. “We have had cases where correspondents are hired on phone, fired on phone and paid through M-Pesa,” he said. “Journalists go to the most dangerous places to give voice to the voiceless, media workers suffer character assassination, sexual assault, detention injuries and even death, we need leaders to defend the free media,” read a message from UN Secretary-General António Guterres who called for an end to all crackdowns on journalists.   World Press Freedom Day seeks to raise awareness of the importance of freedom of the press