Chemelil Sugar head coach Abdallah Juma is confident his charges can stop Gor Mahia when the two sides clash in their SportPesa Premier League (SPL) match on Wednesday in Thika. The sugar millers clash with Gor at Thika Sub-County Stadium on the back of their barren draw with Muhoroni Youth in a match that was played over two days due to rain that while the 15-time champions hammered their eternal rivals AFC Leopards 3-0 at Nyayo National Stadium on Sunday. Juma told Nation Sport that his charges are fatigued after the Muhoroni tie that had been rained off on Saturday but believes they can emerge victorious if they play according to plan. “The last time we played in Thika we drew with Mathare while they lost to the same team. We are fatigued but in this match, they (Gor) are motivated following the big win on Sunday against Leopards. The secret will be to be mentally, tactically and technically superb the entire game.," Juma said. “They will want to go for early goals but we shall have to counter that. I am happy that none of my key players will miss the tie due to injuries except Clifford (Omondi) who has a knock from the game against Kariobangi Sharks." Chemelil sit seventh on the log with 14 points, five below second placed Gor. They have lost once compared to Gor’s two and are unbeaten at the Thika Sub-County Stadium but for defender Harun Shakava, their aim is three points in every match for a chance to reclaim the title. “The league is still in its initial stages with so many matches remaining. Our focus is one game at a time. We hope that we can replicate Sunday's display against Chemelil,” noted the 24-year-old. Elsewhere, beleaguered Thika United coach James Nandwa has urged his players to step up and fight for a positive result when they tackle Nakumatt FC at Ruaraka grounds. “Our position on the log is worrying and we have to improve,” said the former Tusker and AFC Leopards boss. In other matches, champions Tusker will be away in Kericho hoping to extend their seven-match unbeaten streak against Zoo – a side yet to lose in the previous four games. League leaders Posta Rangers will be at the Muhoroni Stadium to battle Muhoroni Youth as Nzoia Sugar visit Paul Nkata’s Bandari in Mombasa.At the Mumias Sports Complex, Kakamega Homeboyz will welcome Henry Omino-less Western Stima. Stima made changes to their technical bench, sidelining the veteran coach on medical grounds with Patrick Odhiambo being called in on interim basis to be assisted by Ramadhan Balala. Second assistant coach Henry Nyabinge was asked to step aside and he has since replaced Paul Ogai at the National Super League outfit Palos FC. Sofapaka will look to bounce back from their 1-0 loss to Posta when they face Ulinzi Stars in Machakos as Salim Babu’s Sony Sugar try their luck against AFC Leopards at the Awendo Green Stadium.   AFC Leopards also visit Sony Sugar, Zoo Kericho host Tusker.