Narok Senator Stephen ole Ntutu will exit the political stage in a tactical move aimed at bolstering his brother Patrick Ntutu’s campaign to topple Governor Samuel ole Tunai. His move has paved way for the position in a high-stakes battle for the Senate, with political re-alignments in Jubilee and ODM parties already taking shape. The race is clouded by clannism and party politics that are seen to be the fault lines along which the battle for control of Narok will be fought. POLITICAL STANDOFFBoth Jubilee and ODM parties are ready with their candidates after the nominations last month. The latest aspirant to express interest has been former Narok South MP Nkoidila ole Lankas, who will be vying on a Jubilee ticket. The former MP has joined top Jubilee leaders who have been working hard to sustain their onslaught against the Opposition in the region. Mr Lankas’ entry into the scramble could ruffle feathers, coming in the wake of a bitter political standoff between Mr Tunai and Senator Ntutu. RESOURCE ALLOCATIONThe former MP said with his vast knowledge on public issues, he is keen to ensure leaders focus on delivering their pledges to the electorate and transforming the county into a prosperous one. Prior to his Senate quest, Mr Lankas was part of the Joseph Kaguthi-led Nyumba Kumi Initiative, which was formed in November 2013 in response to a string of terror attacks, gang violence and robberies around the country. The race has also attracted lawyer Ledama ole Kina who is vying on an ODM ticket. Mr Kina, who previously had an unsuccessful stab at the governorship, has launched a comeback with a revitalised campaigned rooted on ensuring proper allocation of resources. CORRUPTIONHe has been an outspoken critic of corruption and rampant land-grabbing around the Maasai Mara Game Reserve. Mr Kina, who received blessings from the Ildamat clan elders to run for the seat, said he is banking on his legal background to ensure that the resources meant for the county were effectively utilised. He warned that ODM was the party to watch in the county. The aspirant has raised concern over runaway corruption and embezzlement of public resources allocated to the county by the national government for the last five years. YOUTH VOTESDue to his style of leadership, he has made friends and foes in equal measure but he is banking on the youth, elite and his anti-corruption crusade to realise his dream. But the two face an uphill task to win the seat after Mr Albert Kimingin, a 25-year-old first-timer in politics, entered the race making history as the first Kipsigis candidate to run for elective position in the Maa community dominated county. The entry of the youthful aspirant who transverses the county on a boda boda has thrown the race into a spin, especially because he seeks to swing the Kipsigis voters to his side. KIPSIGIS ASPIRANT If the electorate votes along ethnic lines as they have done in the past, then Mr Kimingin has a good chance of clinching the seat as he is assured of approximately 80,000 votes from Emurua Dikirr, Narok West and Narok South constituencies. In this case, the Maasai vote will then be split between Mr Lankas and Mr Kina. “This is the first time a Kipsigis aspirant is gunning for the high position in Narok. "This is causing jitters among contestants because the community has the numerical strength and have historically voted as a bloc,” Mr Robert Kiplangat, a political writer and analyst, said. Politicians who have won top seats in the county before have capitalised on the ‘Kipsigis factor’ to balance their political equations. For example, Mr Tunai, a close ally of Deputy President William Ruto, had swept to power on a wave of massive Kipsigis support in 2013.  