The electoral agency last evening extended the deadline for parties to submit lists of nominated candidates to Sunday. The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission, which had earlier stood its ground and ordered that parties submit their lists by the end of Wednesday, said they made the change because of the 210 cases that were pending before the Political Parties Disputes Tribunal. “The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission has extended the date for submission of names of candidates by political parties to the commission from today (Wednesday) May 10, 2017 to Sunday, May 14, 2017,” IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati said in a statement. In the morning, Mr Chebukati had warned that political parties which failed to meet the Wednesday deadline would be locked out. He said that the only exception to the rule would be a court order. “A political party intending to participate in the General Election shall submit its party list of nominated candidates in party primaries to the Commission on or before May 10, 2017,” he said at the agency’s Anniversary Towers offices in Nairobi. “The submission of the list of nominated candidates will be done electronically.” The deadline elapsed on Wednesday amidst a push by parties to dispense with an avalanche of disputes lodged after the gruelling party primaries. At the same time, the commission defended its appeal on a High Court ruling that said that presidential results announced at the constituency level will be final. The Raila Odinga–led opposition National Super Alliance has asked the commission to withdraw the appeal it argues is an attempt to “alter results at the headquarters.” “We, like all Kenyans, have a right to appeal a High Court decision. And we really just want an interpretation of the law. Let us be told: This is what the law says, and we will respect that,” said the IEBC chief. In their ruling, Judges Aggrey Muchelule, Weldon Korir and Enoch Chacha Mwita declared that the presidential results at the constituency level as announced by returning officers are final and should, therefore, not be subjected to any alterations by the IEBC at the national tallying centre. “How can results which have been tallied be said to be provisional or temporary?” the judges asked.  