There were mixed reactions among supporters of Isiolo Senator Mohammed Kuti following uncertainty over his governorship candidature in the August 8 elections. Until now, it had been unclear whether Senator Kuti would be cleared to vie for the seat and this had caused panic among his supporters while those of his rivals celebrated, thinking he would be barred from contesting. But this celebration was short-lived. Dr Kuti’s running mate, Dr Abdi Ibrahim Issa, confirmed that the Senator has ditched Narc Kenya and has finally decided to vie as an independent candidate, citing administrative concerns with the party led by Ms Martha Karua. Dr Issa explained that the political about-turn was necessary because they could have been technically barred from vying by the Registrar of Political Parties as it was hardly 90 days since they defected to Narc Kenya from Jubilee on April 20. SUPPORT UHURU Dr Issa said the Senator’s team resolved to fully support President Uhuru Kenyatta and his Deputy William Ruto after their successful meeting at State House on Wednesday. He further confirmed that Mr Hussein Golicha who is a senate aspirant in their alliance and seven other MCAs who had defected from their parties to Narc Kenya two weeks ago would vie as independent candidates. “We have been cleared by the IEBC and all our candidates have been given the go-ahead by the Registrar of Political Parties,” said Dr Issa. RUMOURS BASELESS He dispelled rumours that Senator Kuti will not be on the ballot come August 8, saying they were baseless and unfounded and were being propagated by their rivals. “I want to assure our supporters that Dr Kuti will be on the ballot in the August polls and we will have a rally to explain our defection to [become independent candidates],” he added. Isiolo woman representative Tiyah Galgalo who lost during the Jubilee Party primaries and conceded defeat to her opponent, Rehema Dida Jaldesa, was also spotted with the senator’s team during their meeting with President Kenyatta. When contacted, Ms said she was in the process of finalising her next move which she will reveal next week. Ms Galgalo had previously stated that she will not contest in the August polls after losing in the party primaries. The Senator will battle it out with Governor Godana Doyo (PDR), Abdul Bahari Ali Jillo (Jubilee), Adan Kabelo (ODM), Mohammed Gulied (Chama Cha Mashinani) and Anwar Kassam (Maaendeleo Chap Chap).  