Nyeri County has declined to have a case pitting Agricultural Society of Kenya (ASK), ministry of sports and itself over renovation of Ruring’u stadium settled out of court citing insincerity between the parties. Through lawyer Humphrey Manyange, the devolved government said it was privy to plans of transferring the 19-acre land to Ministry of Sports and make National Treasury a trustee of the property. The lawyer was before Lady Justice Lucy Waithaka of Nyeri Lands and Environment Court, where he clashed with lawyers Albert Wafula for ASK and Donald Muyundo of Sports Kenya over reports that the parties were negotiating over the matter. “Sports is devolved and any attempt to transfer the land and the facility to the State is demeaning devolution. The property is owned by the county government and not national government,” argued Mr Manyange. He further said the land was un-procedurally transferred from Nyeri Municipal Council to ASK in 1997. The lawyer however pleaded with the court to lift interim orders issued in March, this year stopping renovation of the field to international status at a cost of Sh250 million to allow development. The injunction orders were obtained by ASK, arguing that it is the legitimate owner of the land and the devolved government together with Sports Kenya did not consult it on the renovation plans. In response, lawyer Albert Wafula told the court that negotiations were at advanced stages to have the matter settled out of court to pave way for the development. “The parties involved are having meetings to have the standoff solved. We will notify the court on the outcome and file consent,” said Mr Wafula. The statement was dismissed by Mr Manyange who said the move had not been communicated to the county leadership. The judge extended orders baring the County Government and Sports Kenya from encroaching on the facility to July 19. Mr Muyundo said the parties in the suit are willing to have the matter settled expeditiously as it was blocking an important development project. Mr Manyange further accused ASK to running down the field for the 20 years it has been under its management.  