Nakuru MCAs are set to go on a retreat in Kisumu against a full tray of pending House business. Sources told Nation the retreat has been organized to enable MCAs sort out pressing in-house matters before the House goes on an indefinite recess on June 16 ahead of the August 8 polls. Minority leader Dan Ambale who is also the Kaptembwa Ward rep confirmed the retreat but did not indicate the exact dates. “This is an in-house meeting where we shall deliberate on a number of issues including the car loans and mortgages awarded to the members in 2014 and how we shall repay them as some of us will not come back in the House,” said Mr Ambale. The House set aside Sh370 million for the MCAs but the fringe benefit was contested in court by Nominated MCA Margaret Kiiru who argued that the loans were not legal as the due tendering process was not followed by the assembly. The matter is still pending in court. Some of the MCAs are, however, questioning the trip, stating that it is an effort to empty assembly coffers before the House breaks for the August 8 polls. An MCA who requested not to be named termed it a last minute tactic to empty the public coffers before the MCAs’ term ends. At least six key crucial Bills and three petitions are still pending before the Assembly. The pending Bills include the Nakuru County Development Fund Bill 2014, Nakuru County Maternal and Newborn Health Bill 2014 and Nakuru County Urban Agriculture Regulation Bill 2014. Others are Nakuru County Housing Estate Tenancy Bill 2017 and Nakuru County Rating and Valuation Bill 2017 and Nakuru County Land Management Bill 2017. There are three petitions that are pending in the House that the MCAs must address before their term comes to an end. Besides the pending Bills and petitions, some of the ward representatives have not finished processing the bursaries for their needy students as they are busy campaigning. Some of the affected wards include, Kabazi, Wasegese, Lanet, Kiptororo, Eburu /Mbaruk, Morindat, Molo, Olkaria and Bahati ward. Majority of the ward representatives are doing their last lap in the House after they were shown the door by angry voters in recent party primaries and rarely attend sessions since the House resumed on May 9. The retreat is expected to draw the wrath of Nakuru residents as 45 out of the 55 elected MCAs were rejected by voters in the party primaries. On Wednesday, the House had two sessions but on both occasions there was no business on the order paper. Acting Speaker Ms Eunice Muriithi urged the MCAs to make sure they attend to the remaining business of the House before they go for the retreat. She was addressing the House in a session that lasted less than three minutes. Her announcement was received with joy and jubilation by the 15 MCAs who were in the House. However, Ms Muriithi did not indicate when the retreat will take place and the venue. “We are awaiting communication from the clerk,” she said. The Assembly has so far passed 18 legislations, several motions and other budget policy documents.  