Construction of phase two and three of the Dongo Kundu bypass is set to begin, following an advertisement of the tender by Kenya National Highways Authority (KeNHA). The authority said the government had secured funds for construction of the road, which is expected to solve problems experienced at Likoni Channel where ferries break down frequently. Phase two will involve construction of two bridges, one at Mwache which will be 660 metres long and another one at Mteza (1,440 metres). A sightseeing bay will also be constructed and at least 88 hectares of mangroves will be replanted, according to the notice. Early this year, the government announced it had received a loan of Sh25 billion for construction of the road. DEPOSIT SECURITY Phase two of the project is 8.9km between Mwache Junction and Mteza, while phase three is 6.9km between Mteza and Kibundani, linking the highway with the Likoni-Lunga Lunga Road. “Bidders should deposit a security of an unconditional bank guarantee of Sh200 million for phase two of the project, and Sh50 million for the third phase,” KeNHA said in the notice published in MyGov Weekly newspaper. “There will be a site visit and pre-bid meeting on June 14 at the KeNHA regional offices,” the authority said in the notice. READ: Imagine a bedroom with a top to floor window overlooking the ocean! Construction of an 11km road in the first phase between Mombasa Port and Miritini, at a cost of Sh11 billion, is over 70 per cent complete, according to KeNHA officials. FIRST PHASE STARTED Construction of the first phase started in July last year and was scheduled to be completed in 36 months. It runs from Mombasa Port’s second container terminal and links the Mombasa-Nairobi Highway at Bonje, near Mazeras. “The road will help evacuate cargo from the port. There is currently a lot of congestion at Jomvu and Miritini, a problem we are trying to address by creating this link,” Infrastructure Principal Secretary John Musonik said in a recent interview. The Dongo Kundu road, also referred to as the Southern bypass, is seen as the solution to the perennial problem of congestion at Likoni Ferry, which is blamed for underdevelopment of the South Coast. FERRIES BREAKING DOWN Over 300,000 people and 5,000 vehicles use the channel each day, which has overwhelmed the Kenya Ferry Services, with the current five ferries breaking down frequently, resulting in delays. On Tuesday, tourism stakeholders and business people praised the project, saying it would help boost tourism, which is at its lowest ebb. “We in the tourism industry believe that the road will unlock the potential of Ukunda and Diani,” said Kenya Association of Hotelkeepers and Caterers (KAHC) executive officer Sam Ikwaye. He said the bypass would also encourage investors, a number of whom are reluctant to put their money in the area due to transport problems.  