Sex addiction, or whatever else one may choose to call it, has claimed relationships, marriages and jobs. But perhaps those who struggle with the addiction in the limelight are the most vulnerable. Scott Disick, famous for his role as in reality hit show Keeping Up with the Kardashians, recently confessed that he is a sex addict. But he is not the first celebrity to have done so. Here are other stars who have struggled with sex addiction: CHARLIE SHEEN - Comedian/Actor According to Vanity Fair, paraphilia is not the only addiction that Sheen has struggled with. The addiction cycle also includes drugs and hookers. Sheen 52, who back in 2015 confessed to be HIV-positive, sometime back opened up on his sex addiction claiming that he has had sex with slightly over 5,000 women. He famously stated: “I don’t pay prostitutes for sex, I pay them to leave” KANYE WEST - Rapper One may wonder how world-famous socialite Kim Kardashian feels about her husbands’ confession a few years back that he was a sex addict. According to Details Magazine, Kanye spoke about his insatiable appetite for sex in a past interview. DAVID DUCHOVNY - Actor In 2011, The X Files leading star, David Duchovny, publicly admitted he was addicted to sex. It wasn’t until his now his ex-wife gave him an ultimatum that Duchovny finally sought treatment. MICHAEL DOUGLAS - Movie Director/Actor The Oscar-winning actor has been married to beauty Catherine Zeta Jones for years, but he’s been candid about his struggles with alcohol and sex addiction. Douglas even went so far as to say that his throat cancer was caused by performing oral sex on so many women. ERIC BENET - Singer R&B and soul singer Eric Benet’s wife Halle Berry discovered he had been unfaithful, forcing him to seek rehabilitation for his sex addiction.  Inspite of checking into rehab for 35 days in an attempt to save his marriage, Berry would hear none of it, she had already made up her mind filing a divorce. RUSSEL BRAND - Comedian It was once reported that the comedian had sex with 80 women in one month, a fraction of the total number of about 2000 women that he has had sex with. Brand has admitted that with all the fame and money that came with success, it was impossible to turn down all the sex and drugs that were freely offered to him. He later on went to rehab. Brand was briefly married to pop star Katy Perry, but the couple divorced in 2012. LINDSAY LOHAN - Actress Famous American actress Lohan has confessed that she doesn’t like sleeping alone. After rumours of bedding countless men and women, and a list of her conquests appeared online, she was asked by MTV if her stints in rehab were anything to do with sex addiction. She said: “It was a lot of stuff, you know. I enjoy having sex. Being an actress is lonely. I hate sleeping alone.” AMY WINEHOUSE -Singer In 2008, Amy’s alleged lover, Alex Haines, in an interview with Daily Mail, claimed that the famed singer was a sex and drug addict, and either needed to be high or having sex. He claimed the pair engaged in an affair when her then-husband, Blake Fielder-Civil, was behind bars. Amy died on July 2011 due to alcohol intoxication.  Got feedback on this story? E-mail lifeandstyle@ke.nationmedia.com    