On Monday evening this week I was driving in Nairobi through the Southern Bypass during heavy downpour. I had switched on the windscreen wipers in the car to maximum speed but the blades of the wipers were killing the flying termites that were all over.The oil from the flying termites was spread over the windscreen, reducing my visibility further. I didn t mind since I was not in a hurry to get anywhere. I just slowed down and thanked God for the rain.Somewhere between Kikuyu town and Ngong Road, I was overtaken by a police car with its siren blaring, blue and red lights flashing on the roof of the car. Clearly, they were answering to an emergency. About 20 metres ahead, the police car had to slow down and wait for what seemed like an eternity for a very slow car that was overtaking an equally slow car. The interesting thing was that the driver of the car that was overtaking, started overtaking just as the police car was approaching him. My first thought was that even if the fellow had not heard the siren of the police car, he most definitely had seen the flashing lights. He either didn t know that he is always supposed to give way to police cars in an emergency or just didn t care. If I were a betting man, I would bet on the former. The driver probably never did a driving test to get the driving licence. Just like the uninformed driver, a number of the people entrusted to run the affairs of golf in our country have no clue about Rules. This is the reason why we are seeing some Local Rules published at some clubs that may as well have been written by a beginner. Could it be that some clubs may have golf captains who probably play their first round of golf the day after they are elected to office? How else would you explain a Local Rule giving relief for a sprinkler head on the fairway? Ahm, excuse me Bwana Captain, I feel like telling the offending Captain, that is covered in the Rules of Golf under Obstructions ! If the captain had bothered to open a Rules of Golf book under Local Rules, he would have seen that they are meant to help in local abnormal conditions. They are supposed to help in conditions that are not covered in Rules of Golf. There is guidance on the recommended wording for Local Rules in the book. Take for example the case where a golf club has taken the time to plant trees. The captain would be remiss if he did not protect the young trees under a Local Rule. The wording used should under no circumstances be Free drop for ball near a young tree . Would you blame a golfer who plays their ball next to such a young tree killing it in the process? With such a lackadaisical Local Rule, the player would be within his rights to play the ball as it lies which is something that the Rules of Golf encourage.Should such a captain take time to open the Rules of Golf for sample wording, he will see that somebody at the R&amp;A had actually thought about such an eventuality. Another mistake that captains are making is thinking that Local Rules is the place to deal with any issue under the sun. The allowable Local Rules are written in the Rules of Golf. Recently, the R&amp;A communicated an additional Local Rule on the accidental movement of balls on the greens. Any other Local Rule that is not part of these, would need special permission from the R&amp;A. Therefore, a club cannot institute a Local Rule that disqualifies players who do not put their home clubs or membership number on the cards. This is definitely not one of the Local Rules that are allowed under the Rules of Golf. It does not matter what reason is given for adding such a Local Rule, if it is not sanctioned by the R&amp;A.Another of my pet peeves is the Local Rule on relief for ruts made by tractor wheels. Even though this is one of the allowable ones, it is the most abused. Many golfers are very quick invoke this Local Rule at the sight of the slightest indentation on the course. Whereas the relief is not warranted in 90% of the cases, if the Local Rule is in place, anything goes.Despite the fact that there are many Rules schools being conducted in the country, people who we entrust to run the affairs of golf in the country are least interested. Can we trust them to steer the game of golf correctly when we encounter a Rules deluge? email print email print