Agnes Kavindu, the estranged wife of Machakos County Senator Johnson Muthama, has pledged to fight for the rights of women. "I thank Jubilee for supporting women. I promise to fight for the rights of women,” said Ms Kavindu as she received the Jubilee Party nomination certificate on Monday. MALTREATMENT Ms Kavindu herself is no stranger to fighting for her rights, a battle that culminated in a case still pending in the courts. Through the Federation of Women Lawyers (Fida), Ms Kavindu in 2014 sued her husband for attempting to evict her from their home in Kitanga Village, off the Machakos-Nairobi road. She had accused Mr Muthama of mistreatment — including disconnecting electricity and water to the palatial house. She said she had resorted to using water from the swimming pool to bath and wash because the taps had been disconnected. However, Mr Muthama argued that he merely wanted to move her to another residence as he wished to use the house for his political activities because it was located in a more central place. BACKING Fida head of litigation Judith Thongori, who represented Ms Kavindu in the case, did not respond to our queries on developments in the case, but a source privy to the matter told the Nation that it was still pending. On Tuesday, Ms Kavindu got the backing of her fellow candidates and residents. Mavoko MP aspirant Kalembe Ndile and Machakos senatorial candidate Winfred Mutua said it was a testimony that the Jubilee Party minds the welfare of women. “Muthama’s wife will fight for other women who have been abused by their husbands,” said Mr Ndile, adding that he was sure she would clinch the seat given her networks as a church leader. 'LESSON' Ms Mutua, for her part, said she and Ms Kavindu are qualified for the task of representing the people of Machakos County. “We don’t expect to be given favours as women. We will present ourselves to the people, who will decide,” she said. Some residents supported Ms Kavindu's entry into politics, saying they were considering voting for her if only to teach Senator Muthama a lesson for ditching the Wiper Party. "I am thinking of voting for Agnes Kavindu as the next Machakos County woman representative. Some people should be politically silenced for good," said Kaveva Mwangangi, who is running for the Masinga parliamentary seat as an independent candidate.   Agnes Kavindu to contest woman rep seat in Machakos.