The Council of Governors has just elected a new team as the counties mark their fourth year since inception. Turkana Governor Josphat Nanok has taken over the job from Mr Peter Munya of Meru, only a few months to the elections, and which are likely to end the careers of several county chiefs. DEVOLUTIONClearly, the creation of the county governments under the 2010 Constitution marked a key turning point in the governance landscape. Counties have become the fulcrum for political, economic and social mobilisation. Funds and management of public resources have been devolved and people at the grassroots empowered to make decisions on matters directly affecting them. Devolution has led to major developments in the regions like never before. For example, some towns have got tarmac roads for the first time since independence. TUG OF WAREqually laudable is the expansion and upgrading of county hospitals to the extent that some can now perform delicate surgeries erstwhile done only in Nairobi and a few major towns. However, the past four years have not been without challenges. The county and national governments have perpetually been fighting over resource allocation, disbursement and utilisation. On paper, the counties are entitled to at least 15 per cent of the audited national revenues every year, but in practice, this has been slow in coming. Either the disbursements were late or inadequate. PLUNDEROn the flip side, counties have gained notoriety for misappropriation, misuse and plunder of public resources. In the past, the lament was about theft by a few at the national level. But under devolution, it has become plunder multiplied and extended. The people have been appalled by the sheer magnitude of waste and looting, with several cases captured in the Auditor-General’s reports. The term of the first crop of governors is ending soon and lessons have been learnt. Strategic decisions must be made to streamline the operations of counties. All the loopholes that allow pillaging and wastage of resources must be sealed and counties compelled to generate own revenues and stop relying entirely on the national government for upkeep.  