President Uhuru Kenyatta has condemned the terror attack in Manchester, United Kingdom, that left at least 19 people dead and over 50 wounded. In a statement to newsrooms, President Kenyatta said he had assured UK Prime Minister Theresa May that Kenya would offer any help possible and will stand with Britain in the fight against extremism. “Kenya knows what it is like to suffer a tragedy such as this, so our hearts go out to the UK, and especially to the families which have woken to devastating news this morning,” the President said, adding that Kenya shares a long history with the UK. Ms May has condemned the attack and said she has suspended her election campaign. "We are working to establish the full details of what is being treated by the police as an appalling terrorist attack," Ms May said in a statement. SUSPEND CAMPAIGNS Main opposition leader Jeremy Corbyn also suspended his campaigns. Mr Corbyn said he had spoken to Ms May, the Conservative leader, and they had agreed that all national campaigning ahead of the June 8 vote would be suspended, the Press Association news agency reported. Online reaction to the suspected terror attack on a pop concert has been swift. Singer Ariana Grande, who had just finished performing in Manchester, northern England, when the blast took place, tweeted that she was "broken" by the attack. "From the bottom of my heart, I am so so sorry. I don't have words," the 23-year-old wrote on her verified @ArianaGrande account, which has more than 45 million followers. SOCIAL MEDIA As politicians from across the spectrum condemned the attack on Twitter, locals in Manchester also used social media to offer up accommodation and advice to those caught up in the chaos. Here are some selected tweets: US rapper Nicki Minaj (@NICKIMINAJ), who collaborated with Grande on recent hits "Bang Bang" and "Side to Side" tweeted: "My heart hurts for my sister, Ariana & every family affected by this tragic event in the U.K. Innocent lives lost. I'm so sorry to hear this." US pop princess Taylor Swift (@taylorswift13), a friend of Grande, tweeted: "My thoughts, prayers and tears for all those affected by the Manchester tragedy tonight. I'm sending all my love." Katy Perry (@katyperry), also a friend of Grande, tweeted: "Broken hearted for the families tonight. Broken hearted for Ari. Broken hearted for the state of this world." "Tearing up imagining innocent concert goers losing their lives," added US popstar Demi Lovato (@ddlovato). "Praying for everyone and all". Grande's manager Scooter Braun, who also represents Justin Bieber, published a longer statement through his Twitter account (@scooterbraun). "We mourn the lives of children and loved ones taken by this cowardly act," the sombre black and white picture statement read. "We ask all of you to hold the victims, their families, and all those affected in your hearts and prayers."  