Nyeri Golf Club s Wachira Keen won the second leg of this year s Nation Media Group Golf Circuit at Nanyuki Sports Club where he posted an impressive 39 points despite the tough condition of the par 72 course.Playing off handicap 20, Keen, who is also the chairman of the Athi Water Services board, and whose last victory was during the 2016 J. G. Muremi Memorial Trophy last November, carded 20 points in the first nine despite scratching the eighth and double bogeying the seventh. I almost gave up the hope of returning a reasonable score after bogeying the second, fifth and the double and triple bogeys at the seventh and eighth, but my team mates encouraged me on, said Keen.He dropped a shot at the ninth though he was happy with his opening nine 20 points.The back nine was not as well easier though he posted 19 points with three single bogeys and three double bogeys, to beat home players Mark Kirimi and Stephen Mutethia by one point. I am very happy winning this event being one of the supporters of the Nation Media Group. I have not won any tournament since last year, added Keen who thanked the management of Nanyuki Sports Club for making the course playable despite the poor condition it was a few weeks back.Of the two local players, Kirimi beat Mutethia on countback to finish second while Nyeri s Pauline Kiguta emerged the best lady with a score of 30 points.Muthaiga Golf Club s Kilu Shah was the guest winner with 28 points and claiming the staff prize was Henry Owuor with 29 points. Veteran golfer Major General (Rtd) Peter Waweru won the gross with a score of 83 gross and club captain Jediel Muriungi and Kiama Kaara won the nines on 22 and 21 points. NMG s head of corporate communications and regulatory affairs Clifford Machoka thanked golfers and residents of the Mt Kenya region of supporting the Nation. You have been our biggest supporters over the years and this is one of the reasons why we have been coming over to Nanyuki and the other clubs in the region of the years. Our main reason of sponsoring such events like the Nation Golf Circuit here is to show our appreciation for your continued support, and as long as you continue reading and advertising with our various platforms, we will continue coming here, said Machoka. NMG company secretary James Kinyua encouraged Nanyuki residents to support NMG s Newspapers in Education programme by buying newspapers for their schools. I would encourage you to support your local schools by enrolling in the NIE programme which has benefited several schools already in the country while at the same time taking advantage and register to receive the Nation at your door step through the subscription programme, he said. On Friday, NMG donated text books to Ngeremara Primary School in Isiolo where NiE co-ordinator Caroline Mani urged the pupils of the school to make good use of the books to improve their education. email print email print