Civil society watchdogs have flagged 20 politicians they say should not be allowed to contest in the upcoming elections over integrity issues. The Kenya Integrity Alliance on Wednesday said the politicians have unanswered questions on corruption and unethical conduct. THE LIST The alliance named no presidential aspirant, but gave red cards to Kirinyaga Jubilee governor nominee Anne Waiguru and governors Alfred Mutua (Machakos), Evans Kidero (Nairobi), Hassan Joho (Mombasa), Kenneth Lusaka (Bungoma), Okoth Obado (Migori), Mwangi Wa Iria (Murang’a) and Cyprian Awiti (Homa Bay). It also named Nairobi Senator Mike Sonko, Uasin Gishu Jubilee woman rep nominee Gladys Boss Shollei, Elizabeth Ongoro, George Ochilo Ayako and Mathew Lempurkel. Others are Moses Kuria, Oscar Kipchumba Sudi, Samwel Kazungu Kambi and Stephen Murathi Kambi. The allegations range from abuse of office to audit queries about finances and participation in violence. SH16 BILLION The list was jointly prepared by Transparency International, the Society for International Development, Mzalendo Trust and Inuka Trust. The organisations say the list is not complete and more names could be added. On corruption, the alliance claims the individuals are responsible for the loss or unexplained use of Sh16.8 billion in public funds. "We have handed this list to the vetting agencies for action. It is not our role to register or to clear aspirants,” said Irungu Houghton of the Society for International Development, one of the member organisations in the alliance. “We hope they will have the courage of conviction to act consistently with reports that have been generated by statutory bodies." Here is the verdict of the alliance on some of the targeted politicians in summary: 1. Anne Waiguru – governor nominee, Kirinyaga Ms Waiguru, a former Cabinet secretary for Devolution, is under investigations for the theft of up to Sh1.9 billion belonging to the National Youth Service (NYS). Abused, lost or unaccounted for money includes funds meant for slum upgrading of a 3.5-km road in Kibera, Nairobi. The candidate is accused of giving directives that ensured procurement and payments were centralised at the NYS headquarters, and hence overriding and undermining meaningful oversight by other State departments. An IPSOS public perception survey released on September 8, 2015 ranked the candidate as third most corrupt leader. 2. Evans Kidero - governor nominee, Nairobi Dr Kidero is accused of procurement irregularities of up to Sh4.6 billion in a plan to launch a metro transportation system. He is also accused of bribery and payment of Sh200 million to Justice Philip Tunoi and also assaulting Rachel Shebesh An IPSOS public perception survey released on September 8, 2015 ranked the candidate as the fourth most corrupt leader. 3. Elizabeth Ongoro – MP nominee, Ruaraka Ms Ongoro is accused of instigating violence during the Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) Party nominations, actions that led to her being barred from contesting on the party ticket. 4. Ferdinand Ndung'u Waititu – Jubilee governor nominee, Kiambu Mr Waititu, popularly known as Baba Yao, has already been declared unfit to hold public office by a court in 2015. Mr Waititu has also been implicated in hate speech. 5. Asman Kamama  – MP nominee, Tiaty Mr Kamama is accused of being involved in the ongoing clashes. 6. Alfred Nganga Mutua – Maendeleo Chap Chap governor nominee, Machakos Dr Mutua is accused of procurement irregularities in the purchase of 16 Subaru vehicles worth Sh147 million and ambulances worth Sh145 million, as well as irregularities in the construction of the Kithimani-Makutano road at Sh568 million 7. Alfred Kiptoo Keter – MP nominee, Nandi Hills Mr Keter has been accused of contravening Chapter 6 of the Constitution and the Leadership and Integrity Act by his conduct in public. He is accused of abuse of office, obstruction and harassment of legitimate authority at the Gilgil weighbridge on January 21, 2015. 8. Cyprian Awiti – governor nominee, Homa Bay Mr Awiti is under investigation by the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) concerning the alleged misappropriation of Sh200 million meant for the Agro City project. 9. Ken Makelo Lusaka – governor nominee, Bungoma Mr Lusaka has been under probe over his county’s purchase of 10 "special" and "non-carcinogenic" wheelbarrows at the cost of Sh100,000 each. He is also linked to a company that has allegedly won the majority of Bungoma County contracts. 10. Zacharia Okoth Obado – governor nominee, Migori Mr Obado is accused of embezzlement and loss of up to Sh600 million through procurement irregularities, violation of Section 11 of the 2016 Election Offences Act, including the use of and perpetration of violence during the ODM party nominations in April 2017 leading to the destruction of property, loss of lives and intimidation of opponents by issuing threats. The alliance argues the publication of the list is not a declaration of guilt but to challenge vetting agencies to determine if the 20 qualify to contest. "The list and the methodology is an attempt by the National Integrity Alliance to advance an ethical standard within the rule of law and our Constitution," said Transparency International Executive Director Samuel Kimeu. IEBC VERDICT "If you see some names missing, it doesn’t mean only these 20 have questions. Once the vetting agencies publish their report, we shall be able to tell how many more are involved.” The list of aspiring politicians with integrity questions is a first by civil society groups to finger leaders they think should stand down for their dirt. Only the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission can disqualify a candidate with advice from the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission, the courts or other investigating agencies. However, the electoral body itself set a higher threshold for disqualifying a candidate by allowing anyone with similar allegations to stand in the 2013 elections. Walter Menya and Dennis Onsongo contributed to this report.  