Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero has dismissed the unveiling of Polycarp Igathe as Senator Mike Sonko’s running mate, saying it is another Jubilee Party project that is doomed to fail. This comes after Deputy President William Ruto backed duo describing it as the solution to the problems facing the capital. But in a quick rejoinder, Dr Kidero, while addressing media at AIC Milimani church on Thursday, said he was not bothered by the combination adding that Jubilee Party has had many projects before which failed to take off and instead became croppers. “The issue of governorship has disturbed and bothered the Jubilee team. They came with the phrase, ‘liwe liwalo, inyeshe ifanye nini’ yesterday but they have tried many projects before which have been croppers. “They started with Irrigation Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa which did not take off, they then came with Peter Kenneth which also did not take and they also had another project involving Dagoretti South MP Dennis Waweru which also never took off,” said Dr Kidero. Dr Kidero said that the ruling regime was just desperate and were trying to fulfill what the Constitution stipulates about holders of office saying that education is not about certificates but what remains thereafter. He added that Jubilee realised that Sonko needed another project to support him so they brought in Mr Igathe to rescue him. "It does not worry me, absolutely not. Come August 8 we will win and not only me but we will also have a majority of seats both in parliament and the county assembly. "I think that is probably what they were trying to address because the Constitution makers wanted somebody who is educated but they made it easy by only asking for a certificate. A certificate is not education, it is only proof that you attended class," added the governor. Dr Kidero said that history of projects in the country have been dismal exuding confidence that he would be re-elected for the second term as Nairobi governor to complete projects he has initiated. "Nairobi voters will give us the second term and National Super Alliance will win and I will come back as a governor, Jonathan Mueke as my deputy, Edwin Sifuna as senator and Esther Passaris will come in as the Woman Representative. We are a very strong Nasa team," he said. However, Dr Kidero faces one of the sternest test of his young political career as he bids to be re-elected for a second term as a governor. Dr Kidero was elected as the first Nairobi governor in 2013 on an ODM ticket under Coalition for Reforms and Democracy (Cord) when he defeated his opponent, Kabete MP Ferdinand Waititu who was vying on a TNA ticket.  