Safaricom CEO Bob Collymore’s contract has been renewed for two more years! The board decided to extend his contract, which was due to expire in August 2017. Board chairman Nicholas Ng’ang’a said, “Bob will be with us to continue the good work he has become known for.” Here, we take a look at some of the unforgettable things Bob has done in his time at the helm. Perfect fit for Michael Joseph’s gigantic shoes If you are like most Kenyans, then you must have been worried if Bob would continue the good work that MJ had started. And boy, doesn’t he continue to prove that he is more than able to captain the ship through high and low tides! And he does all this with a smile! Bob loves children Remember the time in 2011 when cancer survivor Rose Nasimiyu visited him at his office? He took silly photos with her, rallied people to fundraise for her treatment, and had this to say about her. “Rose Nasimiyu is a nine-year-old cancer survivor who is the bravest, most charismatic person I have had the privilege to meet.”   Or when he sat down for a session with 13-year-old Eunice Akoth from Kibera School for Girls for a heart-to-heart in front of business leaders? And if that is not proof enough, then you should know Safaricom also has a child rights policy! Which other company can boast of that? He believes in girl-power He once said in an interview: “The person that you see here today was made more by the influence of the women in my life than the men in my life.” In the same interview, he added that they estimate the value of women’s economy will contribute approximately 28 trillion dollars to the world economy. Safaricom intentionally gives more weight to internship applications by women as they believe they need to expose young girls as early as they can to what it is like working for a company like Safaricom. He can dance! Bob is one of those CEOs that knows how to get his groove on! His latest dancing moves were presented when he danced to the beat of Justin Timberlake’s “Can’t Stop the Feeling”! Look for the video and you will know what we mean.   He remembers where he came from Bob came from a poor background where he didn’t have a shower in the house and feels a deep sense of responsibility. “What I always say to people is just have a memory of where you come from,” he said in an interview. Through the Safaricom Foundation numerous giving-back ventures have been undertaken by Safaricom. He knows his stuff He is one of the most tech-savvy CEOs in Kenya. He really knows his stuff when it comes to the technological services that Safaricom offers and does appear at press briefs, technological summits and other places to present and answer questions himself about Safaricom’s technical end. He knows how to say sorry Remember the recent M-Pesa and data blackout experienced countrywide? Bob’s folks decided that a public apology wasn’t enough to remedy the different inconveniences the company had caused its customers. Twenty-four hours of free M-Pesa to M-Pesa transactions was their immediate response and mode of apology. He is not afraid of PDA! From the time Wambui Kamiru became Mrs Collymore, whenever the two are out together, Bob can’t hide how proud he is to be the husband and love of his wife. And she reciprocates this. This has sometimes drawn the ire of some Kenyans who have never understood why the pair simply are, or why they should be so happy.   Rumours of their “divorce” became such a hot topic last year that Kamiru decided to use the #BeforeWambuiMetCollymore to celebrate the same person she was rumoured to be separating from. His fashion sense makes geeks look cool Bob has a certain suave to him that covers the fact that he is what one might consider a geek. His fashion sense is impeccably on point and not the suits and ties that most CEOs hide behind. You can find him in casual shirts and blazers with denim pants, or sometimes a polo T-shirt will replace the shirt. His shoes also get to match with his outfits which make him appear much younger than his nearly six-decades-old self. Now, maybe we can also attribute his style to his wife, although he had this part covered before that as well.   