1. That Deputy President William Ruto boasted to the people of Kipkelion that he runs the government. This 36-second video was posted on Facebook and sent on WhatsApp and has been circulating for about one month. Strictly speaking, it is more of dirty tricks than fake news but is definitely propaganda. Its originators had in their minds non-Kalenjin speakers, who would depend on the subtitles. MISTRANSLATION In the subtitles, the DP is reported to have said: “Let me tell you something people of Kipkelion. A man must know his enemy. Mine is my boss.” He is then reported as boasting that he runs the government because President Kenyatta is usually incapacitated. It is an intentional mistranslation. The correct translation is: “Listen, people of Kipkelion. Recently, we organised ourselves as one, put our votes in one basket. "Did we not get into government? We now have power in our hands. "As we speak, there is no one else you can ask anything from, is that not right? We now have power in our hands. "We planned this thing before getting into power and now you can see we are in. What are you saying now? POPE AND TRUMP2.. That Pope Francis stopped US President Donald Trump when he attempted to hold hands during a photo-opportunity when they met at the Vatican this week. Mr Trump has not had much luck with hands. At one point during his campaign, the size of his hands became a talking point after it was noticed that for such a big man, he had fairly small ones. SMACKED This week, as he walked on the red carpet with his wife Melania, he tried to take her right hand and she appeared to slap his away. On Thursday, another video emerged. This time, President Trump was standing next to the dour-faced Pope Francis. The camera then zoomed, or appeared to have zoomed, in on their hands, and the President tried to touch and then tickle the Pope with his, and was smacked away. EDITED CLIP It all looked very believable because the clip had a CNN tag. The correct position is that the clip was played on the Jimmy Kimmel Live show, broadcast in the US, and was uploaded to YouTube on Wednesday. While the parts where the Pope and Mr Trump walked into the room and stood side by side, the Pope looking sully and the president smiling, the part where Mr Trump’s hand touched that of the Pope was cleverly edited and spliced on to the clip.  