President Uhuru Kenyatta was on Saturday unveiled as the Jubilee Party candidate to defend his seat in the next General Election. Three months to the August 8 election, the President and his running mate — Deputy President William Ruto — took the opportunity to outline their achievements since 2013 and make a case for re-election based on their development record. The top two Jubilee leaders effectively launched their re-election bid by asking various candidates to go back to the grassroots to campaign for the Jubilee presidential ticket “and not just sit in Nairobi”. They also punched holes into the agenda of the Opposition National Super Alliance whose flag-bearer Mr Raila Odinga was endorsed on Friday by ODM delegates alongside his running mate Mr Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper). HIGH PRICES While addressing hundreds of delegates at the Bomas of Kenya, Nairobi, on Saturday, President Kenyatta said the government was concerned about the high price of essential commodities like maize flour that is a staple food in most homes. He said MPs will review the budget to lower flour prices, when they resume business next week.   “We are a government that believes in providing solutions and not talking about problems,” Mr Kenyatta said, contrasting Jubilee with the opposition which he claimed was quick to criticise his administration without providing solutions. Earlier in the day, the President made appearances in four functions of smaller parties affiliated to Jubilee in a bid to seek for their endorsement in his re-election bid. SUPPORT RE-ELECTION BID Narc Kenya, Kanu, Maendeleo Chap Chap and Economic Front Party and the Kenya Patriotic Party on Saturday separately held their special national delegates conferences and resolved to support the re-election bid of President Kenyatta. At Bomas, the President and his deputy pledged to conduct peaceful campaigns and expressed confidence that they will win on August 8. They said the opposition was keen on creating jobs for the five Nasa Principals instead of creating opportunities for citizens. “Our opponents are focusing on how to create jobs for four people. They are not concerned about the welfare of Kenyans,” said Kenyatta. Mr Kenyatta mentioned progress in health, education, infrastructure and jobs for the youth among his achievements — adding that he would build on the developments in his new term to create more opportunities to transform the country and improve lives. UNITE KENYANS Mr Ruto said the opposition leaders were living a lie by claiming that they have the capacity to unite Kenyans when they had failed to unite four parties that came together to form Nasa. “We have united Kenyans under one party,” Mr Ruto said in reference to merging of at least 10 parties to form Jubilee. The President said the government has set aside Sh 5 billion this financial year to improve infrastructure in schools in readiness for free secondary education, next year. From January, he said, no child will fail to proceed to secondary schools and students in day schools will not pay school fees. “We want to ensure we are going to have 100 per cent transition. It is the government’s responsibility to educate her children. We shall educate all our children,” Mr Kenyatta said. HACK IEBC SYSTEM National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale alleged he was aware that the opposition are planning to set up a parallel tallying centre in Tanzania and hack into the system of the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission. At Kasarani stadium, Kanu held a special national delegates conference to formally endorse support for President Kenyatta’s re-election.   The president made an appearance at the meeting hosted by Kanu Chairman Gideon Moi and Secretary General Nick Salat. “The party hereby resolves that it will not be fielding a presidential candidate in the August General Election but will support the candidature of President Uhuru Kenyatta,” said Mr Salat. Mr Moi, who is also the Baringo Senator, said the support for his re-election was because the President had “a successful legacy”. NARC KENYA “Kanu is your home and I am confident that you will win in August,” Mr Moi said. President Kenyatta promised Kanu that it will be fully accommodated in the next government should Jubilee Party emerge the winner. “The foundation of Kanu is unity and I believe that by being united we will win in August and I promise you that we will all be in government,” Mr Kenyatta said. Narc Kenya also endorsed the president’s re-election bid on Saturday.   Speaking at a meeting attended by delegates from across all the 47 counties, party leader Ms Martha Karua said the party has seen the great development projects which the government has initiated and are in support of their re-election. PRESIDENT GRATEFUL “I have played in both teams and interacted with both the opposition team and the Jubilee government and we have now made our choice,” said Ms Karua. President Kenyatta said he was grateful to work with the party. Maendeleo Chap Chap Party leader Alfred Mutua also affirmed support for the President’s re-election. Dr Mutua described President Kenyatta as a development conscious leader who should be re-elected saying that the President had initiated tangible development projects in key sectors which included roads, energy, and water among other sectors. “We are not water melons or chameleons. We are a party that believes in integrity and development. We are very proud of you as our President. You have not let us down,” said Dr Mutua. DELIVERED ON PLEDGES He said that despite the challenges of running a government, the President had delivered on the pledges he made to Kenyans. President Kenyatta, who was present during the endorsement at the party’s offices in Lavington, said that his government would be inclusive and would bring on board every Kenyan. “I assure you Chap Chap delegates that we will form the next government together. We will embrace inclusivity,” said Kenyatta.   In his address to Jubilee delegates, President Kenyatta also asked those who were defeated in the party primaries to stick to the party as there will be positions for them, once they form the government. Some have opted for independent parties. MANDERA RESIDENTS President Uhuru Kenyatta at the same time promised Mandera residents that he will ensure the curfew existing in the area is lifted during the holy month of Ramadhan. Responding to a request from Hassan Noor who is eyeing Mandera governor’s position, Uhuru said it is not fair for people to be prevented from worship. “It’s not nice for people to be prevented from worship. I’m going to talk to the concerned security agent to have the curfew lifted because as a country we are God loving people and everyone should be free to worship,” he said at Nyayo National Stadium. “We will be coming to Mandera very soon to ask for votes and we will work together with your leaders to tap the resources available for the benefit of Mandera residents and Kenyans at large,” he said.  Reports by, Dennis Odunga, Samwel Owino, Collins Omulo, Faith Nyamai and Brian Moseti   President pledges to conduct peaceful campaigns and discourage all acts of violence.