Will Kabras Sugar finally get one over Kenya Commercial Bank?Kabras Sugar coach Charles Cardovillis has cranked up the pressure ahead of their Enterprise Cup final match against champions KCB after stating his charges start as underdogs Saturday.The duel, which starts at 12pm at the RFUEA grounds, will be Cardovillis second match in charge of the sugar millers, having guided the former Kenya Cup champions to 16-15 victory over Resolution Impala Saracens in the Enterprise Cup semi-final last Saturday. KCB is the team to beat by virtue of being the defending champions and having beaten us over a month ago to reclaim the Kenya Cup, said Cardovillis. We go into the match as underdogs which puts the bankers under pressure, and that could play to our advantage. Cardovillis, who was the director of rugby at Kenya Harlequin before moving to Kabras three weeks ago, said they are in for a good game.Kabras will welcome back Fijian hooker Sava Racigi, who has recovered from illness, and second row Steve Ochieng. They replace Duncan Ndegwa and Lekima Tuidragi, who move to the bench. Also returning to the bench is another Fijian Peter Nakarawa. We needed to boost our set-pieces and strengthen our bench, which were weak at against Impala, said Cardovillis, who is up against Curtis Olago s charges who are spoiling for a battle as they gun for their third consecutive title.KCB dominated to edge out Kabras Sugar 36-8 on April 22 to reclaim the Kenya Cup title they last won in 2015. The two sides also met in last year s Enterprise Cup final where the bankers won 24-12 to retain the title. KCB beat Homeboyz 11-9 last weekend for their fourth consecutive Enterprise Cup final appearance. They have won the diadem five times; 2004, 2007, 2012, 2015 and 2016. Their last defeat in the final was in 2014 to Nakuru. KCB have made two changes to the side that beat Homeboyz, bringing in Kenya Sevens skipper and flanker Andrew Amonde and right wing Peter Kilonzo. They replace Oliver Mang eni, who is with Kenya Simbas and James Kilonzo, who sustained an injury in training.KCB skipper Curtis Lilako reckons that Kabras Sugar will definitely come hard on them, seething with revenge. Their forwards are good ball carriers. They also have skillful backs especially their powerful wingers, said Lilako. We shall counter them with the same approach used at Kenya Cup. Lilako said that they have to be tactical and clinical with their ball carrying besides movement in the pack and lineouts. We shall need to work hard on our precision and go for points while in their territory since any point will be vital, said Lilako. We shall deny them possession. Expect victory and a good game. email print email print KCB will defend their Enterprise Cup rugby title against Kabras Sugar on Saturday.