Othaya MP Mary Wambui has quit elective politics after losing in the Jubilee Party primaries. Ms Wambui on Wednesday said she had decided not to ditch the party to defend her seat as an independent candidate like a host of incumbent MPs in Nyeri have done. SH15 MILLION The first-term MP said she would focus her energy and influence on President Uhuru Kenyatta’s re-election campaigns. Speaking in Othaya town after issuing bursary cheques worth Sh15 million to 1,000 students from low-income backgrounds, the MP said her desire was to see residents get education and development. She lost in the nominations to Gichuki Mugambi, who garnered 20,228 votes against her 12,524. Ms Wambui called on voters to turn out in large numbers during the August elections and vote for Mr Kenyatta, saying he had performed well. PROJECTS “Giving President Kenyatta a second term in office will enable the country to continue witnessing more growth and development. Tens of projects have been put up to improve the economy,” she said. She condemned the opposition coalition Nasa, describing as "selfish" the five-man team led by Raila Odinga. “The Nasa coalition is an outfit that is out to divide Kenyans. They are more concerned about themselves and their families than Kenyans,” she said. She was referring to the nomination of Nasa co-principal Kalonzo Musyoka’s son, Kennedy, to the East African Legislative Assembly. She further took a swipe at Nasa’s pledges to Kenyans ahead of the General Election, calling them "unrealistic". RIVALS She took over the parliamentary seat from retired President Mwai Kibaki, who had represented the constituency in the National Assembly for 34 years. In the last elections, Mr Kibaki opposed Ms Wambui’s candidature and supported Mr Mugambi of the Sabasaba Asili Party. Mr Mugambi will face Nairobi based-lawyer Peter King’ara of the Democratic Party and Zack Ireri of Maendeleo Chap Chap in the race to succeed Ms Wambui.   Kibaki's ally Gichuki Mugambi wins party ticket for Othaya MP.