Q. I am a sales executive in a paints manufacturing company. Recently, I got a job offer from a rival company, complete with a higher rank and better pay. When I notified my employer that I was leaving, I was promised that I would succeed a regional manager who is leaving the organisation. I am split between the lure of the new offer, loyalty for this organisation and growth in my career. Advise me.  We need to unpack the reasons employers extend counter offers to employees especially if they get a job offer from competition. The employee might possess product or service knowledge which gives the organisation a competitive edge over the competition. The employee might also have superior competencies and skills which the employer would not like the competitor to benefit from. If it is an organisation that relies on trade secrets to thrive, it becomes important to retain the talent aware of the secrets. Also, the investment in terms of training and on-the job training that the employee has been offered is often a huge loss to the organisation should an employee leave. To answer your question, I will give you two options - you can make a decision to trust your employer and reject the offer in the hope that you will be given the role of Regional Manager and an enhanced remuneration package. Word of caution however, be responsible enough to have this commitment in writing, specifying the terms and the duration you will have to wait. You also need to ask yourself; if you are that critical to the business, why had your employer not offered you the role before you made your intention to resign known? That said, the other option is to go ahead and resign and join the competition. Take a look at what your contract states before you resign to know whether you will be required to serve notice or not. Before you make the move, I hope you know the grass is not always greener on the other side, so do your homework in terms of stability of the company and whether there is an enabling environment for career growth. Also seek to find out whether the position is new and what may have happened to your predecessor. Remember you are a key stakeholder of your own career development.  