Nominated legislator Dr Oburu Oginga could be preparing to quit as MP and move to the East African Legislative Assembly (Eala). This comes as a row is brewing within the Wiper Democratic Party following the nomination party leader Kalonzo Musyoka’s eldest son Kennedy Musyoka to the regional assembly. Jubilee Party which has five slots of the available nine has also nominated Kamkunji parliamentary loser Simon Mbugua among others to Eala. ODM sources said that the decision to nominate Dr Oginga to serve in the regional assembly was to give him a soft landing after he lost the party’s ticket for Bondo constituency to the current MP Gideon Ochanda. He will therefore join the chairperson of the National Elections Board of ODM Ms Judy Pareno and Mr Abubakar Zein as the party’s nominees to serve in Eala. SUBMITTED PAPERS The  Nation could not reach either Dr Oginga or ODM secretary-general Dr Agnes Zani to react to the matter but a top party official said that “indeed he has submitted his papers. Some MPs advised Jakom (Raila Odinga) that he could not just leave Oburu in the cold.” Dr Oginga is the elder brother of Mr Odinga. It therefore means that Dr Oginga would have to quit as ODM’s nominated member of the National Assembly. The National Assembly resumes on Tuesday until June 7 when it will be dissolved ahead of the August 8 General Election. Before Dr Oginga’s entry into the race for Eala seat, some of the leading candidates were Silas Jakakimba, an aide of former Prime Minister Raila Odinga, educationist Prof Chacha Nyaigotti-Chacha and Jotham Nyukuri. POLITICAL DIVISIONS The election of the nine people who will represent Kenya in Eala is May 16. Meanwhile, the choice of the young Musyoka sparked new political divisions in Wiper party with some MPs openly opposing his nomination. A section of Wiper MPs have ganged up with their party rebels who decamped to Jubilee to oppose the young Musyoka’s appointment when the names are finally tabled on the floor of the House for approval. The MPs feel that it is politically unwise for the Wiper party leader to nominate his own son months to a charged presidential contest as this will give excuse for rival Jubilee party to castigate him. Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Junior who is a member of the parliamentary select committee that will vet the names was apprehensive of the backlash the young Musyoka’s name is likely to attract during the vetting process. EXPECT CRITICISM “Parliament has minimal role other than verifying personal details and competencies but of course we expect some criticism from rival parties but we’ll just stick to our mandate as a committee” said Senator Mutula. However, the Nation learnt that Mr Musyoka has defied all the counsel and warning from his close allies on the expected public backlash and embarrassment the appointment may cause and gone ahead to push for Kennedy. “The entire party top brass including senators and MPs have advised against this but Mr Musyoka is determined to see his son through the process that will be open for public scrutiny,” said a source familiar with Wiper party affairs. Mwingi north MP John Munuve criticized the appointment and vowed to oppose the young Musyoka’s name at the committee stage and on the floor of the House. “I will attend the committee sittings as to oppose this appointment. Wiper should have nominated another person because Kenyans have rewarded his father with high ranking public offices,” Mr Munuve declared. HEIGHT OF SELFISHNESS Mr Munuve said it is the height of selfishness for Mr Musyoka to ask Kenyans to elect him to the highest political office while at the same time pushing parliament to approve his son’s nomination to EALA. Mbooni MP Kisoi Munyao also said he’ll oppose the appointment saying it doesn’t reflect the wishes of the majority of Wiper party supporters. “This position should have gone to one of the countless supporters who have stood with Kalonzo throughout his career as reward for loyalty. Those behind his political ambition will feel cheated and unappreciated” said However, the outgoing Wiper representative to EALA Peter Mathuki defended the young Musyoka saying that as a lawyer he was immensely qualified having handled matters at the East African Court of Justice. The  Nation established that the party had promised its former executive director Dr Temi Mutia the EALA slot and he was even prevailed not to run for Mwingi west parliamentary seat.   Mr Ochanda confesses there are attempts push him out of the race in Bondo. #ElectionsKE