There was excitement in the Embu County Assembly after a nominated MCA advised her colleagues to learn how to “steal votes” if they wish to recapture their seats in the August 8 election. There was a light moment when the MCA, Nancy Murithi, rose to congratulate all those who “rigged the nomination polls”, saying stealing also required some level of intelligence. Ms Muriithi, whose husband, Peter Muriithi, won the nominations to fly the Jubilee ticket for the Mbeti North MCA seat said it was not an easy task to rig an election and then defend the stolen victory to the point of being awarded a nomination certificate. NOT EASY “Congratulations to everyone, and I hope everyone will be back even the thieves. To be a thief is not easy. You have to plan how to steal. My mother told us that it is better to have a thief than a foolish person at home. Even now, you should plan how to steal,” she said. Ms Muriithi urged her colleagues to be vigilant, warning that their competitors would not spare any opportunity to engage in such electoral malpractice. The discussion arose as MCAs debated the outcome of the recently concluded party primaries. IRREGULARITIES They unanimously agreed that the election was largely marred with irregularities for any politician to win genuinely but at the same time observed that those who “stole their way to victory” were recognised as honest winners. Muminji MCA Newton Kariuki noted that “even stealing is part of an election”. “Even stealing is part of an election. When you steal and get that certificate, the issue of stealing evaporates and you are the candidate of that party. Let me congratulate all those who won [either] by stealing or fairly because we know what was happening. There was no fairness in Jubilee Party [elections],” he said. However, nominated MCA James Kathendu cautioned his counterparts against stealing votes, pointing out that this would taint their integrity and consequently water down people’s confidence in them. He said legislatures need credible and morally upright leaders for counties to prosper.  