Resolution Impala Saracens claimed sweet revenge when they brought down Kenya Harlequin 25-15 on Saturday at Impala Sports Club, Nairobi, to reach Enterprise Cup semi-finals. Also through to Cup semi-finals are champions Kenya Commercial Bank, Kabras Sugar and Homeboyz. KCB ended Blak Blad s fairytale run in the tournament with a 49-6 win at KCB Sports Club in Ruaraka, while Kabras Sugar claimed a comprehensive 50-11 victory over Nondescripts at Kakamega Showgrounds. Homeboyz advanced through to the semi-finals without breaking a sweat after their opponents Strathmore Leos withdrew from the tournament at the quarterfinal stage.Impala Saracens, chasing their first victory since 2005, will now face last year s losing finalists Kabras Sugar away in Kakamega on Saturday, while KCB, who are targeting their third consecutive title, face Homeboyz.Fullback Richard Sidindi, scrum-half Mohammed Omollo and veteran substitute Moses Kola scored a try each for the Sarries against Quins as right wing George Okoa curled over two conversions and penalty to win the Ngong Road derby. Omollo also scored a penalty to put Impala on course for their 12th Cup success. Fly-half Isaac Adimo and substitute Hillary Barasa s tries fell short even with fullback Kevin Keegan s conversion and a penalty. It was an inspiring win for Impala, who had lost twice to Quins in Kenya Cup 28-10 in their first and 36-26 in the second leg.Resolution Impala s head coach, Frank Ndong, said it was a great victory for his charges although they need to polish some aspects before they play Kabras Sugar. We missed a couple of line outs and had lapses in concentration in the second half to allow Quins to claw back, said Ndong. A majority of Ndong s forwards are in South Africa with Kenya Simbas team. Nevertheless, I am happy that the boys rose to the occasion to win, Ndong added. Ndong can expect a tough but exciting semi-final battle against Kabras Sugar in Kakamega on Saturday.Impala are yet to win a match in the tournament at Kakamega. email print email print