The Kenya Defence Forces (KDF) said enough measures had been put in place to ensure this year’s recruitment is corruption free. Vice Chief of Defence Forces Joseph Kasaon said the exercise, which kicked off today in various parts of the country, was being monitored by the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission, National Intelligence Services and Transparency International among other external bodies. KDF seeks to recruit 3,000 servicemen and women, constables and tradesmen in the exercise that will run up to June 14. BEWARE OF CONMENLt Gen Kasaon cautioned the public against bribery and conmen masquerading as KDF officials, promising to secure them placement in the military. “Any person purporting to have influence to recruit or issue a calling letter away from the designated recruitment centre is a conman,” he said. The military boss asked the public to report any misdeeds or interference to the recruiting team or to the nearest police station or a recruitment malpractice hotline number, 0726419706. HEALTH OF RECRUITS As the exercise started in Nyeri, a man was kicked out of the recruitment at Chaka grounds in because he had ringworms. The 23-year-old could not hide his frustration when he was turned down because of the skin infection. “I was confident that I would pass this test because I am a good runner and I have good academic qualifications,” he said. According to the officer in charge of the centre, Lt Col Paul Aruasa, being healthy is a basic requirement. “In the case of the ringworms, if he is taken to the barracks, it’s going to spread easily,” he said. MEN ONLYHundreds of youth were turned away for lacking original documents and being overage. In Lamu, hundreds of women who turned up for the recruitment were turned away as their male counterparts got the rare chance to join the force. Some 500 young women at the Kibaki Grounds in Lamu Island were sent away after it emerged that this year’s exercise only targeted men. “We are here today to recruit for Kenya Army and Airforce. We have no vacancies for ladies this year. They shouldn’t lose heart because we still have similar exercises in future and maybe they will be considered,” Senior KDF recruiting officer Kyalo Munyao said. And in Laikipia County, a former serviceman was arrested after he allegedly produced forged documents at Nyahururu Stadium today. Mr William Koskei was handed over to the police for interrogation. Reported by Stella Cherono, Mwanaidi Bakari, Nicholas Komu, Kalume Kazungu and Steve Njuguna  