Only one elected woman Member of the County Assembly (MCA) out of six at the Nakuru County Assembly escaped the wrath of residents during the just concluded party primaries. The only ‘survivor’ was Ms Jane Wangui Ngugi who clinched the Gilgil Ward Jubilee ticket in a hotly contested and male dominated exercise. Nominated MCA Irene Chebichi Cheruiyot was the only nominated woman MCA in the 74-member House to win in the primaries after clinching the Soin Ward ticket. The youthful MCA beat incumbent Symon Kiprop Molock to bag the Jubilee ticket. At least 45 MCAs out of the 55 lost in the party primaries and will be expected to continue with the House business for the last time before the final adjournment on June 16, ahead of the August 8 elections. KICKED OUT Some of the women MCAs who were not spared by the angry voters include Ms Monicah Wangui Gitau (Murindat, Gilgil), Ms Leah Jepkoech Serem (Keringet), Ms Jane Simita Munka (Mbaruk/Eburu), Ms Florence Wambui Njoroge (Elburgon) and Ms Eunice Wambui Muriithi (Viwandani Naivasha). Ms Lucy Nyambura Kihumba who is the outgoing Menengai Ward MCA did not offer herself to defend the seat. The nine lucky male MCAs who survived the chop include the long serving Shaabab Ward MCA Daniel Kamau Githengi, Mr David Kipkoech Malel (Tinet), Mr James Humphrey Mwaniki (Nakuru East), Mr Joel Karuri Maina (Biashara Naivasha) and Mr Moses Ndung’u Kamau (Elementaita). Others who convinced he voters to give them a second chance were Mr Peter Nderitu Mwangi ((Bahati), Mr Peter Wanjala Manyonge Palanga (Olkaria), Mr Samuel Kipkemoi Tonui (Nessuit) and Mr Stephen Ng’ethe Chege (Mai Mahiu). Some of the losers have indicated that they might vie as independent candidates in the August 8 polls. RESUME SITTINGS The Assembly resumed duties on Tuesday but failed to adopt the report of the Budget and Appropriations Committee on the 2017/2018 budget estimates. The MCAs argued that they had just come from the party nomination exercise and were not conversant with the content of the report tabled by the Elementaita rep Mr Moses Kamau Ndungu who is the chairperson of the Budget and Appropriation committee. “We have just received copies of the Budget report hardly less than 12 hours and we have not scrutinized it and I urge he House to postpone the debate,” said Mr Joseph Waithaka Mwangi of Subukia said. COMING TO TERMS Visoi Ward rep Mr Edward Gitau Kamau said that MCAs were still nursing political injuries after vigorous primaries. “We have just come out of the party primaries and most of the MCAs are still coming to terms with the outcome and need more time to read the report,” said Mr Gitau. Nominated MCA, Ms Cheruiyot, supported the motion to suspend debate on the report saying many MCAs were still nursing election hangovers. Acting Speaker Ms Eunice Muriithi bowed to pressure from the MCAs and shelved the debate until the members have read the report.   Intimidation is the greatest challenge for women in politics. #ElectionsKE