National Super Alliance leaders on Wednesday promised to cancel some multibillion-shilling contracts signed by the Jubilee administration if they win this year's General Election. Addressing a rally in Kisii, the leaders said they would review mega projects to ensure taxpayers got value for their money. “Where such contracts are found to have been fraught with fraud and corruption, we shall not hesitate to abrogate them,” Ford-Kenya leader Moses Wetang’ula said at Gusii Stadium. On his trip to China earlier this week, President Uhuru Kenyatta sought an additional Sh370 billion in loans to extend the standard gauge railway from Naivasha to Kisumu, pushing the total cost of the project to Sh847 billion. The President made the request for additional funds from China’s Exim Bank. The money, he said, would finance the third phase of the project, the 270-kilometre line from Naivasha and Kisumu. THEFT POTENTIAL Mr Wetang’ula said the amount requested is a lot and could end up lining the pockets of top government officials. “Globally, constructing a kilometre of a railway is $3 million. From Nairobi to Malaba [the distance] is 500 kilometres. That will only cost Sh150 billion,” the Bungoma senator said. “They have requested Sh370 billion. It is clear that the difference of Sh220 billion will end up in the pockets of some people.” Mr Wetang’ula added that money lost in corrupt deals should have been used to lower high food prices. “The price for sugar, milk and other items remains high. Let’s us not give up in the war to send Jubilee home,” he said. The leaders, who included Raila Odinga, Kalonzo Musyoka, Amani National Congress chief Musalia Mudavadi and Bomet Governor Isaac Ruto, also attacked the government’s move to cushion Kenyans from the rise in the cost of basic commodities. Mr Mudavadi wanted to know where the government got Sh6 billion meant to subsidise maize flour. “Farmers, for a long time, requested the Jubilee government to increase the price of a 90kg bag of maize. The government refused, insisting it did not have cash. Where has this money suddenly come from?” he asked. FUEL COST “The government should also tell us who benefited from this money. Is it the farmer or businessmen?” Mr Odinga said it was absurd that the government was lowering the price of flour but increasing the cost of fuel. He said Jubilee is oppressing Kenyans by giving them one thing with one hand and robbing them with another. “Jubilee is looting from Kenyans. We should not allow them to continue leading this country for they have failed to keep their promises,” he said. Mr Odinga said the subsidised flour was benefiting Mexican farmers. Mr Musyoka said the money lost to corruption was enough to fund tuition for all secondary school students. He said the Jubilee government was not treating Kenyans equally. “The price of tea leaves is lower in Kisii compared to some other areas,” said Mr Odinga’s running mate. ONLY PERSON Mr Ruto called on Kenyans to vote for Mr Odinga because “he is the only person who can save the country”. He said Rift Valley was becoming a Nasa zone and “residents will not follow anyone blindly because he is a member of our community”. “If there is hunger in Kisii, Bomet is also affected. We reject tribalism,” he said. Earlier, Mr Odinga cautioned Nasa supporters against infighting, saying Jubilee is the common enemy. During a meeting of Nasa officials at the Kisii Sports Club, he told members that infighting would distract them from the objective of dislodging Jubilee from power. He said the alliance’s objective of getting 10 million votes was a reality. “We have sufficient numbers to overcome Jubilee, but we must be disciplined, committed and watchful to guarantee Nasa victory,” he said. Mr Odinga said the western and Nyanza regions had more than four million registered voters. “Nyanza alone has at least 2.7 million votes. Another 1.9 million are in western. If we can mobilise 2.5 million in Nyanza and 1.5 million in western, we will have a head start against Jubilee,” he said. WARNED SUPPORTERS The Nasa presidential nominee warned supporters against complacency. He said the alliance targeted a 95 per cent voter turnout in August. “Every voter must report to the polling station early,” the Orange Democratic Movement leader said. Mr Odinga said Nasa would employ a coordinated approach towards monitoring the elections. “We will have a five-member team manning every polling station. Every team will have a chairperson, vice-chairperson, treasurer, women and youth leaders,” he said. Nasa also demanded details of talks between the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission and telecommunication companies on plans to transmit poll results. Mr Mudavadi said Nasa must be furnished with details of the contract. 'THREE ZONES' “We are aware talks are going on between IEBC, Orange, Safaricom and Telkom. I am told that the country has been mapped into three zones that will be manned by the firms,” the ANC leader said. Contacted for comment, IEBC commissioner Roselyne Akombe told the Nation that no contract had been signed, and that Nasa and Jubilee had been involved in discussions with the firms as part of the elections technology committee. “We have made discussions, which Nasa is aware of, to have a consortium of three service providers, so that where there is no 3G, they can provide satellite,” said Dr Akombe. The rally was also attended by Kisii Governor James Ongwae, Senate aspirant Sam Ongeri, nominated Senator Janet Ongera and Kitutu Chache South MP Richard Onyonka, among others.   Hard-line position taken by opposition leaders amounts to incitement, he says.