Kenya is optimistic of performing well in their first appearance in Fiba-Africa Zone Five Under-16 and Under-18 Three-on-Three championships that will be held in Mombasa from June 1 to 6 team head coach Everline Kedogo said on Thursday. Kedogo, a former international guard and Eagle Wings club tactician said a provincial squad of 42 players have been selected to represent Kenya in the boys and girls categories. Kedogo said: “Since we did not have enough time to start training together in Nairobi after the selection of both teams we will now begin the preparations in Mombasa for five days from Saturday in readiness for the six-day championship.” She added that the final squad of 24 players had already been picked for the u-16 event while those for the u-18 championship will be trimmed down to four per each team after vigorous training. Kedogo said the teams will depart for Mombasa by road on Friday at 10am. The federation has made all the accommodation arrangements. Kenya will battle it out with 11 Fiba-Africa Zone Five member countries in the preliminary round. Two teams for boys and girls will qualify to represent Zone Five in the final tour in Togo in July. The tournament will be hosted at KPA Makande Gymnasium from June 1 to 6. Kedogo, who will be assisted by experienced Eunice Ouma of Eagle Wings  said the u-16 team consists of players selected from the following schools - Brooke House, Sigalame High, Eastliegh High, Upper Hill, Ambira Boys and Meru. MAN IN CHARGE The three-on-three boys’ team will be handled by Kenya Ports Authority assistant coach Mike Opel and Justus Akhwesa of Masaku Sparks. The four national teams with players who were born in 1999 and 2001 will train at Mombasa’s Aga Khan School and KPA Makande gymnasium. Kedogo said age vetting was done using original birth certificates She added that the bulk of the u-16 players have been selected from Mathare Slam Dunk Development programme. They will be coached by Sylvester Odoro assisted by Kedogo on the girls technical bench.  