A total of 21 drivers will compete in Eldoret Rally which starts Saturday morning from the Sikh Union Club. The third round of the Kenya National Rally Championship has received only 21 entries, one of the lowest for the Western Kenya Motor Club event for a long time.Clerk of course, Surinder Sudle, expressed disappointment with the low entry but remained optimistic the rally would run flawless despite the threat of rains. The stage that takes drivers through the forest could prove a handful if rains suddenly come down, although most of the sections are dry, Sudle said from Eldoret.Though the much anticipated rains caused no signs of concern for the drivers while on the official reconnaissance of the route yesterday, the design of the route is bound to make the event more competitive and entertaining for both the drivers and fans respectively. Osman Abdullahi, relatively a newcomer to the championship but with a proven record in his short spell, said the stages were dry and in parts very fast. Today is going to prove vital for us and our Subaru Impreza to do well after finding the stages faultless and coming soon after spending a day with Tapio Laukkanen in Nairobi, said Abdullahi, whose best position so far this year was ninth place in Mombasa Rally. Abdullahi, who is a product of the Abdul Sidi Rally Academy, added: It is a learning period for me at this early stage of rallying. I stand to gain a lot from Laukkanen with his professional training on how to handle rally cars at those crazy speeds. He is such a friendly person. It will also be interesting to see how Marvin Baryan performs after scoring his first rally victory in Mombasa. Like Abdullahi, Brayan also spent a day with Laukkanen last week to polish up his driving skills. After five years of waiting, Baryan savoured his maiden KNRC career victory on the season-opening Mombasa Rally on his very first outing in a Skoda Fabia 1600 R5. Laukkanen is the defending Kenya National Champion and also the current Motor Sports of the Year Personality. The first car will leave the Sikh Union Club at 8am before tackling seven competitive stages along Chebemit, Salabin and Chemweno among other places. The longest stage will be 33km and the shortest 5km.Ian Duncan, the former National Champion and also former multiple winner of the Eldoret Rally leads the overall championship with 53 points followed by yet another former champion, Carl Tundo in the second place with 45 points. They are expected to battle it out in the Eldoret event Saturday.STARTLIST1. Onkar Rai/Gareth Dawe - Skoda Fabia, 2. Carl Tundo/Tim Jessop Mitsubishi Evolution 10, 3. Manvir Baryan/Drew Sturrock - Skoda Fabia, 4 Ian Duncan /Amaar Slatch Mitsubishi Evolution 10, 5. Jaspreet Chatthe/Gurdeep Panesar -Mitsubishi Evolution 10, 6. Baldev Chager/Ravi Soni - Mitsubishi Evolution 10, 7. Tapio Laukkanen/Gavin Laurence -Subaru Impreza, 8. Karan Patel/James Mwangi - Mitsubishi Evolution 10, 9. Amaanraj Rai/Tauseef Khan - Ford Fiesta, 10. Tejveer Rai/Zahir Shah - Mitsubishi Evolution 10, 11. Jasmeet Chana/Ravi Chana - Mitsubishi Evolution 10, 12. Farhaaz Khan/Keith Henrie -Mitsubishi Evolution 10, 13. Piero Cannobio/Silvia Frigo - Mitsubishi Evolution 10, 14. Eric Bengi/Tuta Mionki - Subaru Impreza N12, 15. Jonathan Somen/Richard Hechle - Ford Escort MK2 CLASSIC, 16.George Mwangi - Subaru Impreza N10, 17. Natasha Tundo/Chantal Young - Subaru Impreza N10, 18. Harpreet Sagoo/Paren Hirani - Subaru Impreza N10; 19. Amaar Haq/Victor Okundi - TBA. 20. Leonardo Varese/Kigondu Kareithi - Toyota Corolla RSI. email print email print