Internal auditors attached to the national government have appealed to President Uhuru Kenyatta to intervene and ensure they are promoted like other employees in the National Treasury. Through a representative, the more than 500 internal auditors said they deserved to be promoted to other job groups after stagnating in the same position for more than six years despite advancing their education. The official said there was disquiet among his colleagues after they were left out in promotions recently advertised where only career accountants and drivers in the Directorate of Accounting Services and Quality Assurance will benefit. The same directorate houses the Internal Audit department. The National Treasury, in an internal advertisement on April 6 invited accountants, finance officers, budget officers and drivers to apply for vacant positions totalling 944 in job groups J, L, M, N and P. The advert is signed by Principal Administrative Secretary Mutua Kilaka, and according to sources, the beneficiaries will move up one or two job groups. Internal auditors in the National Treasury and those seconded to various ministries and State departments have questioned why they did not qualify for the promotions, even though they are employed under same terms and conditions as accountants. Sidelined “We are being unfairly sidelined and discriminated upon considering most of us are eligible for promotions having served in current positions for over three years as dictated in schemes of work,” said an auditor. Speaking to the Business Daily on condition of anonymity for fear of reprisals, the auditors said it was unfair to favour accountants. “Some auditors have stagnated in same job groups for over six years and despite writing many letters to our employer, no promotions are forthcoming,” revealed an auditor. According to multiple auditors the Business Daily spoke to, the delayed promotions have lowered their morale and some are seeking green pastures or considering early retirement. A senior official at National Treasury said the auditors were left out as the ministry plans to decentralise them to other ministries unlike the current situation where they are seconded to ministries. The official said once the Public Service Commission (PSC) confirms the move, another advert would invite the internal auditors to apply and get their promotions. He said PSC will have made a decision by June.  