He runs the blog, themagunga, on www.magunga.com, and is the co-founder of the Magunga Bookstore. He is also the Storymoja Festival Artist Manager. The festival is taking place in late September this year, and will draw artists and creatives from all over the world for the biggest book party in East Africa. 1. It’s been three years coming, but you’ve finally won Kenyan blog of the year. How does that delayed gratification feel? It was shocking. I did not expect to win, mostly because I had already accepted the tag ‘DiCaprio wa BAKE Awards’. But what was more surprising was the noise that came with the win. It was loud and true. It was as if almost everyone in the room was rooting for our blog to win. That humbled me. And left me speechless. 2. Do you read the other blogs in your category? What do you think was different about this year that helped you win? Yes, I do. I was in two categories and in both, I went through all the blogs. There are some that I hadn’t read before we were nominated, so it was a good discovery. What happened differently? I won. What helped me win? I guess the fact that people read the blog and like our content more than I thought they did. 3. You recently wrote a telling blog about your experience in law school and that it was law school that made you a blogger. Would you consider going back ? Definitely. I would go back in a heartbeat. Reverse time and watch me do it. I love that place. It was home. Every day I miss it even more. What I cannot go back to is the legal profession because I was never in it in the first place. 4. How do you balance blogging and working, as well as your role at the Storymoja Festival and running a bookstore? The grace of the gods and ancestors. The spirit of William Oduor ‘Meja’ Okango is working overtime to align my constellations. 5. What’s next for the Magunga? A book, perhaps? A book is a stretch. I don’t have a plan just yet, other than to simply keep writing. See you on the next story. ***** HOTSPOT Kaya You know Jemedari – he is the man behind Suits and Mics, which is on this Saturday at the Michael Joseph Centre from 5pm. Go listen to his album, Kaya. Entrance is 1,000 shillings, and you get a signed copy of the album. If not familiar with his music, check out his SoundCloud, which features some of his songs such as, Zaidi Ya Wote, Msenangu and Kiuno. See you there? ***** Blog review Lovine Mboya www.lovinemboya.com  I stumbled across this blog when Lovine put up a story on Instagram that caught my eye. The story is about Bryan Ochieng, a former street boy who turned his life around, went to school, got an education and training, and then went back to the street – to help those he had left behind. It was an interesting and hopeful story considering all the bad news one reads every day…sometimes you need to be reminded that there are people doing good out there. Lovine covers ‘Lifestyle, Education, Music, Beauty, Inspiration, Art…’ and things she finds inspirational about her journey in journalism, as well as reflections, besides regular interviews and features. If looking for a good start to your day, I’m sending a little Lovine your way.  