Kenyan short film Neophobia was selected as the only African movie to be screened at this year s prestigious 70th Cannes Film Festival in France.The 17-minute film was screened from the 24th to 26th May 2017. The film was selected by the festival s Short Film Corner panel and Creative Minds Group.Speaking to Buzz, one of the main actors in the film, Joyce Maina who acts as a young African woman obsessed with old routine and an unwillingness to try new things, said she was very surprised the film was selected. I was really surprised that the film made it to Cannes. It s one of the most prestigious and I think very competitive film festivals and for a Kenyan film to make it there is amazing, Ms Maina said.Asked how she was selected to be one the main character in the film, she said, Mark Maina, the director reached out to her after he had watched a few of her previous works and was interested in working with her.She added; He was very easy to work with and understanding cause around the time we were shooting Neophobia I was also shooting something else so time was a big issue but he always found a way to work it out. The actress, who has appeared in local television shows like Sumu la Penzi, New Beginning s, among others, also admitted being frustrated by the Kenya Film Commission Board (KFCB) after they said they had no money for any actor to attend the Cannes Festival and instead the chairman Ezekiel Mutua and the PS of Arts and Culture accompanied the director. I didn t go for the festival because apparently KFCB didn t have the budget to take anyone else but the director. But they had enough of a budget for the two. I find it frustrating that they are getting a free trip to Cannes, off the work of other people. It s should be the cast and crew of Neophobia in France, she said.Brian Ogola, who plays Dr Adam Akunga was also equally as frustrated. Unfortunately there is nothing I can do. They had initially told us that we will go to France, but a few days before we were to leave they said only Maina would go, then I saw Ezekiel Mutua posting pictures on social media saying, he was in France, he said.According to Ogola, he had a project they were working on with Maina but the sponsors pulled out at the last minute saying that 2017 was an election year and they will visit the subject after the elections.So instead they decided to work on Neophobia. It took them nine days to finish it because they were mostly working on weekends.When it came to submit the film for consideration at Cannes Film Festival, Ogola was skeptical because he thought he had not given his best. The director told me to speak with a Luo accent and I told him I cannot pull it, but he kept telling that I was doing a great job, he added.On the film being accepted at Cannes, he says he is very excited, honoured and he feels great for the crew that something they worked on is being screened at an international level. It feels great and this shows that the Kenyan film industry can also be recognised internationally. Ogola has worked on Jane and Abel, Lies that Bind and Love 101 among others. The film will premiere in Kenya at a later date. email print email print Kenyan short film Neophobia was selected as the only African movie to be screened at this year s prestigious 70th Cannes Film Festival in France.