Nairobi region on Sunday clinched the inaugural FKF National U13 Youth Championship that ended at the Nakuru Athletic Club. Nairobi posted an exciting 5-3 post match penalties win over Nyanza after the two sides had settled for a barren draw upon full-time, which was played over 50 minutes. Jabir Ali, Joseph Munala, Davis Onsemus, Japheth Mzungu and Rajab Omar all successfully converted their penalties for the winning team, whilst Glen Masava was the unlucky one, as he failed to convert his spot kick for the losing team. This competition which is the first of its kind in the country, also attracted teams from Western, Coast plus Rift Valley regions. "We are very delighted with this win. We didn't start the tournament particularly well but we have learned from our mistakes and leave the tournament with the cup." Nairobi region captain James Gachago, who is a student at Hillcrest Academy, explained. Earlier, Nyanza edged Coast 2-1 in the semi-finals, whilst Nairobi edged Western 1-0 in the other last four contest. This two-day tourney was graced by among others, Football Kenya Federation technical director Andrew Spier, who consequently selected 34 youngsters from this lot, who will head to England in August for a friendly match against a select similar age-group team in Southampton. "I am pleased to note that the Championship was largely successful and we have selected the lads who will be assessed and trained in the coming months in readiness for the Southampton trip. Those we have selected have exhibited admirable attributes in ball handling, understanding of the game and on the field leadership skills." Spier explained. On his part, FKF communications director Barry Otieno earlier told Nation Sport such competitions will make it possible for the sport's national body to create the much needed player passports, key in not only abating age cheating but also ensuring that club benefit from training, solidarity and transfer fees in the event of future transfers." added Otieno.  