MPs return to work tomorrow with a crowded agenda ahead of the General Election, which is barely three months away. The lawmakers, mainly Jubilee who are the majority in the House, are already warming up to a supplementary budget that is meant to cushion Kenyans from the high cost of living occasioned by increased prices of essential goods. President Uhuru Kenyatta’s announcement that a supplementary budget will be presented to Parliament as it resumes today to address the cost of living has been received mixed reactions from leaders. On Sunday, State House Spokesperson Manoah Esipisu said the President was concerned about the rising cost of essential commodities. “The President has settled on fresh measures through a supplementary budget to address the situation,” Mr Esipisu said. IRRIGATION PROJECTSMr Esipisu, who was addressing the media at State House, Nairobi, said Treasury Cabinet Secretary Henry Rotich was finalising the details of the supplementary budget before it is taken to Parliament. Yesterday, Kiharu MP Irungu Kang’ata said the decision to introduce the supplementary budget is good but a long-term solution needed to be devised. “Long term measures are needed such as completion of irrigation projects,” Mr Kang’ata said. CAMPAIGN PERIODHe went on: “It is true there is inflation partly due to demand and supply issues. On demand side, during campaigns there is usually heightened money circulation, which creates huge demand hence increase in prices. So one ought not to blame Jubilee for it,” Mr Kang’ata added. He also blamed drought for reduced supply in key commodities. “The answer should be as per proposal contained in the supplementary budget cushioning the poor against inflation,” he said. Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi said the introduction of the supplementary budget had come too late and could just be a scheme by the government to hoodwink Kenyans that it is doing something. “The President is talking about the high cost of living as if he has been living outside this country, this only means that he is not in touch with the reality Kenyans are facing,” Mr Wandayi told Nation. SCANDALHe went on: “The introduction of the supplementary budget cannot work because the revenue base of the country is too weak to support it.” Uriri MP John K’Obado also faulted the decision, saying it could be another scam by the Jubilee administration in the offing. “We know it is campaign time and anything is possible at this time. Money can be allocated to cushion Kenyans then later it ends up in other people’s pocket,” Mr K’Obado said. There is already bad blood between the National Assembly and the Senate over the Division of Revenue Bill that determines how funds are shared between the national and county governments. FUNDS TO COUNTIESThe Bill lapsed after 30 days as a mediation committee of equal number of legislators from both Houses failed to strike a compromise. The senators, who will resume business on June 13, boycotted the mediation sessions in protest after the MPs ignored the Bill. “The Bill must be republished. The decision to ignore the Senate will come to haunt the National Assembly,” Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Jr said, today. Governors are demanding answers from Parliament over the move to delay clearing of funds for the counties, affecting service delivery. SENATE TO BLAME The MPs approved a Bill that indicates how the national government will spend its share of revenue in the next financial year, saying the funds were urgently needed. “There is no urgency in the national government that does not exist in the counties. The National Assembly has gone to bed with the Executive when they are constitutionally mandated to carry out genuine oversight,” Mr Kilonzo Jr claimed. There are concerns that governors have become ‘gods’ in their regions because they control billion of shillings. National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale has blamed the Senate for the slow pace of conducting business, saying some of the Bills pending before the House had constitutional deadlines. GENDER BILLThe Bills that the National Assembly will be waiting to be referred to them from the Senate include the physical planning Bills. MPs will also deliberate a proposed legislation that seeks to increase the number of women in Parliament. This is after previous unsuccessful attempts by both Houses to pass the two-thirds gender principle Bill due to lack of requisite numbers. The MPs will also have to conduct a comprehensive review of the current Standing Orders.  