Michael Khamati and Singida United-bound Shafik Batambuze struck as champions Tusker compounded Mathare United's woes with a 2-0 win in their SportPesa Premier League match at Ruaraka grounds. Coach Francis Kimanzi described the defeat as "very painful", and admitted that his players were suffering from confidence issues. "This is the third consecutive loss and it hurts very much. The players are not confident at all but they tried to create chances. This was just not our day," said Kimanzi. "What we need to look at is our strike force. The players are a little too timid at the moment but we can work on that," the former Tusker coach added.   Khamati struck the opener barely a minute into the match, latching onto George Mandela's pass to slot home past goalkeeper Wycliffe Kasaya. Batambuze then added a second after winning the ball deep inside Mathare's half before placing the ball low past Kasaya.   Mathare had some good chances in that match especially in the second half when but Alphonse Ndonye and Cliff Nyakeya could not find a way past keeper Duncan Ochieng. Chris Ochieng had an early chance for an equaliser after he was set through on goal by Chrispinus Oduor but Duncan Ochieng was alert. George 'Wise' Owino had also a long range effort that flew wide as the brewers held on to go for the breather 1-0 up. The introduction of Tyson Otieno seemed to have breathed life into Mathare's attack, his trickery and pace causing the brewers backline some problems in the second half. Otieno could have levelled matters in the 58th minute after Duncan Ochieng failed to save the ball after leaving his line, but skipper James Situma blocked the shot before Tusker cleared their lines.   Despite their efforts, they fell further behind with just 16 minutes left courtesy of Batambuze's goal. Batambuze, who is on his way to newly promoted Tanzanian outfit Singida United, doubled Tusker's advantage in the 74th minute by capitalising on a poor restart from Kasaya. The Ugandan intercepted a pass meant for Daniel Mwaura before slotting home to the delight of the brewers faithful. Second half substitute Clifford Alwanga had a late chance to add a third, but his long range shot flew wide before Abdul Hassan also fluffed his lines for the brewers. Chris Ochieng rattled the bar late on with a fine header as Mathare went in search of a goal, but the champions held on to move into second place - a point behind leaders Gor Mahia who play Thika United on Sunday at Nyayo Stadium.  