IN KAMPALA, UGANDA When Mike Mutebi is not thinking football, his mind is on Johan Cruyff's work. Yet, how can you think Johan Cruyff when you are not thinking football? The Dutchman was football itself. Actually, his blueprint of total football is still the creed at Barcelona; more evident in recent times of Pep Guardiola as the Catalans coach. “You play football with your head, and your legs are there to help you,” goes one of several football and intellect-rich quotes from Cruyff, whose football both as player and coach at Ajax and Barcelona made the world marvel and fantasise about the game. Mutebi, who led KCCA to their second successive Azam Uganda Premier League (UPL) title and the side’s 12th overall on Tuesday, is one of those not spared by the charm of the Dutchman.     Since attaining a Uefa Diploma ‘A’ licence from Germany early in his coaching career, the KCCA manager’s dream has always been to try and apply Cruyff’s football dogma as well as become one of the best teachers of the game. Now in the Caf Confederation Cup group stage at only the first time of asking, you could argue the 47-year-old is living part of his dream. “I have always wanted to rub shoulders with the best coaches in the world,” Mutebi – occasionally leaning back against his black leather seat in his office at Phillip Omondi Stadium, told Daily Monitor. “My football and coaching life has always been honed around the late Johan Cruyff.” Cruyff succumbed to cancer aged 68 early last year. (READ: Cruyff dies at 68) “I never met him but watched his tapes. The things he did for Ajax, the wonders he did for Barcelona, then for world football!” At this point, you can hardly stop Mutebi. He is in his element when talking about the pioneer of total football. “I had this dream to follow this man,” he said. BELIEVING “I thought I would transfer here what he did to grow our game. It is a long journey. We are not yet there but at least today, the critical mass now understands and appreciates what we are trying to do, thanks to advancement in technology, and they can compare with the world. “The things you are seeing now, I started in 1997 as a 27-year-old. They looked peculiar then, foreign. They faced a lot of resistance but I persisted. “Along the way, I stepped on many people’s toes. They thought we had to do it the ‘Ugandan way’, winning at all cost, but with the new media and more understanding today, at least the critical mass appreciates what we are trying to do.”     What fascinates Mutebi more about Cruyff is the 1971, 1973, and 1974 Ballon d’Or winner’s ability to do it both as a player and coach. “Cruyff was a fantastic player and had knowledge of football; arguably the best ever player and manager. Very few fantastic players make good coaches.” NOT YOUR ORDINARY JOB Mutebi wants it to sink further into people’s minds that football management is not your ordinary job. “It needs a lot of hard work and it is one of the most privileged jobs in the world, in part because you impact on many people’s emotions.” Mutebi has previously worked and shared his philosophy with several local coaches like Fred Kajoba, Moses Basena and Ibrahim Kirya at Simba, Frank ‘Video’ Anyau with Uganda Cranes, Abdallah Mubiru, Mujib Kasule and Sam Ssimbwa at KCCA among others. “The intention of working with all these was to try and send the message about the importance of our job, the most prestigious job. “The public is watching. How you carry out yourself is important, and you have to absorb the criticism and pressure. “To do that you must have the belief that what you are doing is right. Most of the coaches have tried to do the right thing but they have faced the same resistance I faced. “Fortunately, the critical mass has changed and I’m privileged to have touched so many people in the game.” Like any ambitious coach, Mutebi loves winning trophies, yet that is hardly his biggest satisfaction thus far. “For me, the biggest achievement is helping footballers to become important citizens of this country. This is more satisfying than winning trophies.” Edgar Watson at Miracle, Ibrahim Sekagya in Copa Coca-Cola and the then KCC striker David Obua in school and the national team and Andy Mwesigwa among others form a line of those players Mutebi influenced. Like his idol Cruyff, Mutebi is allergic to mediocrity. Cruyff never settled for the average. Mutebi is never comfortable with the average. KCCA ABOVE AVERAGE You can see that in his season rating of his KCCA; a team fresh from defending the league title with two matches to spare, in the semi-finals of the Uganda Cup and in the group stages of the Caf Confederation Cup. “Six,” he said when asked to rate KCCA season out of 10. “Above average. Of course when you win the league back-to-back, playing more than 40 matches and at the same time remaining competitive on the continent - that is wonderful. “Technically we are working on about 50-55 percentage. With that, to reach the group stage is good. I still believe these boys can do more and can be competitive against anybody on the continent. “Their average age is 24. With all this football this season, they should know that a top footballer is subjected to that. “If they stay together, get holistic education, then there is a possibility that they can dominate the next eight or so years. This is a Ugandan project. It goes beyond KCCA.”   FACTFILE Name: Mike Hillary Mutebi Age: 47 Coaching qualification: Uefa Diploma ‘A’ holder from Germany (DFB) CLUB MANAGEMENT 1994-96: Assistant coach at then KCC and Miracle 1996: Took over from Phillip Omondi at KCC as head coach before quitting in 1997 for Simba 2003: Head of technical at KCC before shortly resuming his head coaching role. 2011: Signed a three-year Shs360m deal with SC Villa as manager. Deal collapsed with Villa’s division into two sides in the 2012/13 league anarchy. 2015: Joins KCCA as manager alongside Sam Ssimbwa, who was later sacked for kowtowing in match fixing talk HONOURS 2017: UPL champion 2016: UPL champion 2016: Coach of the Year CRANES TENURE 2004: Briefly coached the Cranes but was replaced halfway through the 2006 Africa Cup of Nations qualifying campaign by Egyptian Mohamed Abbas. This feature first appeared on www.monitor.co.ug   KCCA are four titles within record champions SC Villa’s 16.