The electoral commission has so far cleared eight presidential candidates to face off in the August General Election. They are National Super Alliance (Nasa) leader Raila Odinga, Cyrus Jirongo (United Democratic Party), Ekuru Aukot (Thirdway Alliance), Michael Wainaina (Independent), Uhuru Kenyatta (Jubilee Party) and Japhet Kaluyu (Independent). Others are Mohamed Abduba Dida (Alliance for Real Change) and Joe Nyagah (Independent). By close of business Monday, five aspirants had flopped the test the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) set for politicians gunning for the top seat in the land. They are Peter Solomon Gichira (Independent), Erastus Nyamera (Independent), Justice and Equality Party flagbearer Justus Juma, Truphena Moraa Ochwangi (Independent) and Nazlin Umar. Mr Gichira's loss saw him attempt to jump off the 6th floor of Anniversary Towers, the IEBC headquarters, in protest on Saturday afternoon. He was on Monday charged before a Nairobi court with attempted suicide, malicious damage and creating disturbance at IEBC's offices. SH200,000 He denied the three charges and Chief Magistrate Francis Andayi released him on Sh 200,000 cash bail. Mr Nyamera flopped the IEBC test after presenting himself before the Wafula Chebukati-led panel without a running mate. He also failed to produce his academic papers, Sh200,000 cheque and requisite signatures. Mr Juma, on the other hand, failed to secure the green light to run for the top office after it emerged that his proposer was not a member of his party. The application of Truphena Moraa Ochwangi to vie for the top seat as an independent candidate was rejected after she failed to present required documents. NAME MISSING Ms Umar’s bid for the Presidency hit a dead end after it was discovered that her name was missing in the voters register. IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati told her to seek verification from a clerk but she accused the commission of maliciously not listing her. "We shall ensure we give you a free and fair election and it is for you to do your part," Mr Chebukati told Dr Kaluyu and his running mate Eliud Muthiora Kariara, after certifying their documents. RALLIES President Kenyatta was escorted by his supporters to KICC who had followed him from Nairobi’s Eastlands estate where he had addressed rallies in Donholm, Buruburu, Bahati, City Stadium and Muthurwa. “We are not people who rely on propaganda and we do not incite Kenyans against each other. All we want is for Kenyans to be together and enjoy the prosperity of our nation,” said the President when he spoke in Donholm. Deputy President William Ruto urged the residents to vote for Senator Mike Sonko as the governor of Nairobi because he said understands Nairobi’s problems. “We urge you to vote for this young Jubilee team so that we can change Nairobi,” said the DP. DRAMA Mr Nyamera caused a stir when he arrived three hours late and without his running mate. Besides, he did not have any documents to present to the commission. He explained that he had been stuck on traffic as he had boarded a public service vehicle from Gikomba. It was more interesting when he sat patiently before the commissioners as he waited for his running mate who never showed up. Moreover, Mr Nyamera did not have a signed list of his supporters, he does not have a degree and he did not have the required Sh200000 cheque. And despite all this, Mr Nyamera threatened to sue the electoral agency complaining that it had set stringent rules and that it had violated his right to vie for the Presidency. “I had a short notice of four days to collect signatures…the commission has put measures that are meant to lock out independent candidates…I will go to court,” said Mr Nyamera. He told journalists that he had a long list of running mates but had settled on Dennis Kirui whose mobile phone was switched off.  