KANO, NIGERIAOne of Nigeria s most prominent Muslim leaders is under investigation on suspicion of embezzlement, fuelling rumours that some want him removed after he made comments about the need for social reforms.Investigators are looking into the accounts of the Emir of Kano, Muhammadu Sanusi II, following reports of mismanagement of royal funds. We have gone far in the investigation...to safeguard the honour and prestige of the emirate council, the head of the anti-corruption unit in the northern state of Kano, Muhyi Magaji, said. The treasurer and secretary of the state-funded royal court have been summoned for questioning on Tuesday.A source familiar with the investigation said it centred on the use of six billion naira ($19 million) of palace funds to pay for luxury cars, chartered flights, phone and internet bills and other personal expenses. The council has denied the reports. BOUGHT AIRLINE TICKETS The council has never bought a Rolls Royce for the emir, treasurer Mahe Bashir Wali told reporters last week. These cars were given as gifts after he became emir. Wali maintained that the emir always bought his airline tickets with personal money and that the state government approved his spending.The emir, who is revered in Nigeria s Muslim-majority north and whose guidance is sought in spiritual and temporal matters, was appointed in June 2014 after the death of Ado Bayero.The western-educated ruler has broken with royal tradition, speaking on the need for social reform in a fiercely conservative region.In his previous job as governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, Sanusi Lamido Sanusi, as he was then known, caused shockwaves by alleging a $20 billion fraud at the state-run oil company.SUSPENDED ECONOMISTIn response, the then president Goodluck Jonathan, suspended the economist and banker in what many saw as politically-motivated retribution.As emir, Sanusi has said men without sufficient means should not take more than one wife, prompting protests from clerics and residents in an area where polygamy is entrenched.He has also hit out at the federal government s economic policies, saying they have led to poor governance and lack of development in the north, setting him on a collision course with authorities.Recently, he criticised the governor of neighbouring Zamfara state who blamed divine retribution and fornication for an outbreak of meningitis that has killed more than 800 people in the north. DEVELOPED NORMSThe Kano emirate dates back more than 1,000 years, during which time it has developed norms and etiquette to which an emir is expected to adhere.That includes maintaining a dignified silence and avoiding open confrontation with political leaders, instead cultivating them in private for the greater public good. Zamfara senator Kabiru Marafa accused Sanusi of derailing from the tradition laid down by the former occupants of the throne. He is no longer a whistleblower or a university lecturer, he was quoted as saying by The Punch newspaper in an interview. email print email print