Shooting guard Titus Musembi on Saturday scored game-high 16 points to help Co-operative Bank beat Thunder 93-69 and move to the top of Kenya Basketball Federation men s Premier League standings at Nyayo National Stadium Gymnasium.The victory propelled the bankers to the top with 17 points from eight wins and one loss. Ulinzi Warriors, who were leading the competition, dropped to second spot with 16 points with unbeaten record. Thunder, who lost their fourth match, got off to a good start with shooting guards Abel Nson and Griffins Ligare troubling the bankers defence. Co-op Bank resisted early pressure from their opponents as both teams locked the scores 12-12 at the end of the balanced first quarter.Coach Carey Oketch of Co-op Bank used the first quarter break to inject new ideas to his team which payed dividends in the second quarter. Thunder found themselves in a tight corner, with Co-op s Musembi, Kevin Kigotho and Job Byron troubling them. Co-op Bank pilled pressure to outscore Thunder 32-20 in the second quarter, a score which seemed to have determined the the match at an early stage.Things got out of hand for Thunder as they trailed 44-22 at the break, and it soon became clear they would find it difficult to erase the margin. After closing in 24-21 in the third quarter, Thunder ran out of ideas to go down 25-16 at the end of the fourth quarter. Little-known Fidel Muya scored 12 and Job Byron 14 for the winners. Shooting guard Abel Nson responded with 13 points and Griffins Ligare 19 for the losers.It was a good day for Co-op Bank teams as their women s counterparts also registered a 51-40 win over coach Ronnie Owino s Strathmore University after leading 23-18 at half-time. Experienced Everline Itabo of Co-op Bank proved quite a handful for Strathmore, scoring 17 points with Taudencia Peter adding 16.At the same time, Zetech University teams registered mixed fortunes in their Premier and Division One league matches at the same venue.Collins Ocholla scored 15 points, Ian Muindu added 12 points to steer Zetech University to a 68-62 victory over Strathmore University in their men s Division One league showdown. Zetech were down 32-22 at half-time thanks to coach Maurice Obie, who capitalised on their opponents foul trouble to carry the day.Zetech University Titans threw away a 34-27 half-time lead to go down 72-67 against much-improved KCA-U side. In another men s Premier League match, determined Umoja harvested maximum two points when they rocked Trailblazers 56-55. email print email print