Action returns to Nyali Golf and Country Club Mombasa, this weekend as the par-71 course hosts Britam tournament.The par-71 Nyali course currently playing long due to on going rains, will host Britam golf tournament.Like last weekend, a field of 140 players was drawn to tackle the very challenging course where at stake will be a number of fabulous prizes courtesy of sponsors Britam Insurance.During last weekend s AAR Insurance, lady golfer Regina Kaveke posted a fine score of 38 points to take the overall prize, beating single figure handicapper Dinesh Sasan who has been in great form since the season started. Though quite a big number of middle and high handicap golfers posted good scores last weekend, the current condition of the course is likely to favour the low handicap golfers who are able to give the ball a good carry.This is where players like Dinesh Sasan, Gurbux Singh, Eric Nyongesa, long-hitting George Munyao, his brother Daniel Nduva are likely to play well.Leading the chase for the ladies prize will be Nyali Lady captain Joyce Masai currently playing off handicap 11 and who carded 36 points last weekend. Teeing off for those drawn in the morning section, is set for 7.40am, with the afternoon draw to start at 12.00 noon. At Thika Sports Club which was the venue last weekend of the 2017 Winston Churchill Cup won with an excellent score of nine under par, a huge field of over 200 players was drawn for the Kenya Broadcasting Corporation tournament where some high scores are most likely if the course is still playing well as was the case last weekend.It is a stableford competition which is likely to favour those in the middle and high handicap bracket. Back in Nairobi, Karen Country Club will this afternoon host the Nairobi Hospice Charity tournament, an important event which deserves serious support. Nairobi Hospice does an excellent job looking after those with terminal illnesses. Besides individual players who were listed to play, a number of corporate organizations are also supporting teams. On Saturday, Karen will host the Ladies Medal and May Mug being sponsored by Kenya Orient Insurance. Away in Kisumu, newly elected Nyanza Golf Club captain Sammy Deya begins his term with the Plascon golf Day which he says is among many events he intends to organize to return Nyanza Golf Club the way it used to be. It's sad that we have lost a number of events to other clubs in the region because of the problems the club has been having, but that is now past and we want to try and get things moving again said Deya, a former captain at Thika Sports Club now based in Kisumu. email print email print Daily Nation Sport gives you a list of this weekend's golf fixtures: