Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero and Senator Mike Sonko have renewed their bitter war over garbage collection in the city. The county government has warned against unauthorised garbage collectors after the Sonko Rescue Team carried out an campaign called "Operation Ngarisha Jiji". NEMA Speaking at City Hall, county Secretary Robert Ayisi said officials will only people who follows the correct procedure will be allowed to collect garbage. Dr Ayisi said that anyone found collecting garbage without following the conditions set by the county government will be breaking rules. “We do not mind anyone collecting garbage, but they should follow the procedure that meets the county conditions and that of the National Environment Management Authority (Nema) by having the right licences,” said Dr Ayisi. Dr Ayisi said garbage collectors should also register their garbage trucks. COLLECTORS He said the city always partners with other organisations but will not allow people who dump garbage somewhere at night and then collect it later in the name of cleaning. Speaking tothe Nation, county environment executive Peter Kimori has accused the senator of politicking on pretence of cleaning up the city. Mr Kimori said the garbage that Mr Sonko was collecting in Eastleigh was at a pick-up point where businesses deposit their waste before City Hall takes it away twice a week. He added that he had sent a team on Tuesday to arrest the illegal collectors but they ran away. DOCUMENTS “We are on high alert…if we find the team collecting garbage without proper documentation we will arrest them,” said Mr Kimori. But Senator Sonko, on his Facebook page, said his "Operation Ngarisha Jiji" wants to make sure all estates and slums are cleaned up and restored to their lost glory. “I wish to confirm that my team has been taking the collected garbage to the Dandora dump site using our trucks,” said Mr Sonko. City Hall has acknowledged there is a garbage problem in the metropolis, but Dr Ayisi said the responsible county agency is doing its best to collect waste and maintain a clean environment.  