Youth in Mumias on Saturday afternoon took to the streets burning Jubilee T-shirts and other campaign material while chanting pro-Nasa slogans moments after Deputy President William Ruto toured the region. The protests came a few minutes after Mr Ruto had finished addressing hundreds of residents in Bomani in Mumias. The rowdy youth, who went about harassing anyone wearing Jubilee regalia, termed the region a Nasa zone. During the protests, a woman was undressed, forcing security personnel to intervene and calm the situation. “ODM! Nasa! Jubilee tawe (No Jubilee),” they chanted as others danced on the streets. The demonstrators blamed the Jubilee government for the high cost of living and the woes facing Mumias Sugar Company. Mr Ruto was in the region to give out certificates to aspirants who had won the Jubilee nominations and to campaign for the party. Those who received their certificates included Mumias East MP Benjamin Washiali, his Navakholo counterpart Emmanuel Wangwe, Kakamega gubernatorial aspirant Marbel Muruli among others. Matungu MP David Were and his Ikolomani counterpart Benard Shinali were conspicuously absent during the tour. Earlier on, Mr Ruto while addressing residents of Matungu, said the government was working towards importing maize flour and sugar to bring down the skyrocketing prices of the most essential commodities in the country. 'PROTECT FARMERS' “As a government, we are very careful not to import recklessly because we have a duty to protect farmers who are very important to the economy of the country. Yes we have a shortage of maize and sugar, but our farmers come first. We will import very little to substitute what our farmers produce,” said Mr Ruto. He said: “We are, however, cautious not to open doors to cartels who will want to capitalise on the shortage of maize flour and sugar to flood the local market with cheap imports and affect local production.” He said in a week’s time, the price of maize flour will drop from the current price of Sh180 per 2kg packet to Sh100. Mr Ruto asked the Opposition to stop pushing the Jubilee government to import cheap maize flour and sugar, saying the import might have a negative effect on the local farmers who are about to start harvesting maize. “As a government, we only want to import what is very necessary to salvage the current shortage before farmers start harvesting maize from their farms in the near future. We know that the same Opposition will turn against us when the market will be flooded with cheap imported maize flour and sugar,” he said. TWO-WEEK NOTICE He asked the Mumias Sugar Company's board of management to sack corrupt managers before the government releases more money for bailing out the cash-stripped miller. Mr Ruto gave the board’s chairman, Mr Kennedy Mulua, a two-week notice to “clear the virus that is sucking the company dry”. Speaking at Nabongo grounds in Mumias when he commissioned the National Youth Service economic empowerment programme on Saturday, he said the government was committed to reviving Mumias which helped more than 3,000 cane farmers and another three million who depended on sugar production. “Since 2014, we have given Mumias over Sh3.4 billion but this money has just vanished in the thin air due to bad leadership at the company,” he said. Mr Ruto said the government was aware that there was a cartel at Mumias that worked with the former managers who left the company on its deathbed. “This cartel is doing everything possible to ensure that government’s efforts at Mumias don’t bear fruit. That is why we have identified a new board chairman whom we are confident will turn around the company,” said Mr Ruto.  