A wind of change is sweeping across the political scene going by the just concluded party nominations, where young people trounced a number of seasoned politicians. The young aspirants went against the retrogressive adage that the youth are the leaders of tomorrow and that they should stay in the waiting room, and wait to be offered leadership in future. They chose not to let their political inexperience, lack of political network and inadequate funding come their way. Not to mention that they closed their eyes to the millions of shillings worth of campaign machinery and affluence that seasoned opponents displayed. Armed with wit and manifestos, these young aspirants combed through villages and estates — some on foot and bicycles — marshalling a majority of their peers around them. It was time to send recycled politicians and their old ways home. So, how did they do it? And, what is their next move?  How I peddled closer to my dream Muturi Muthee alias Roho Safi, holder of a Bachelors degree in Business Management from Karatina University. Age: 24 Post: Gatitu/Muruguru ward representative seat in Nyeri County. Votes garnered: 1,915 against closest competitor’s 1,142 votes.  How I campaigned: With no machinery, I campaigned on a bicycle, peddling across the ward urging voters to support my bid. I later made a wooden cardboard, pasted my poster on it and hung it on the bicycle with a slogan: “A leader with a mission and vision”. The challenges: I had no money for the campaigns, so I struggled raising a few coins by working as a casual labourer to be able to attend harambees and meet the electorate. My girlfriend would occasionally come to my rescue, and give me some cash (say Sh500 to Sh1,500). Some of my rivals had asked me to quit, promising a nomination at the county assembly after the August general elections. They also offered me Sh500,000 to Sh1 million, which I rejected. How I made it: My support came from women and youth. I used proverbs and bible verses to convince them. Women threw their weight behind me, saying they would not dump their son. Youth said they would not let down one of their own. That is how I trounced my competitors.  It is either a win or a win Sylvanus Osoro – An accountant and lawyer Vision: I want to bring development to my constituents so that they can enjoy the fruits of devolution. I also see myself becoming a senior politician in Mount Kenya region. The journey has just began. Age: 29 Post: I am vying for a Member of Parliament seat in South Mugirango, Kisii County. In 2013, I vied for the Embakasi South MP seat in Nairobi and lost. It was my first attempt. Unlike my opponents then, I did not have money to fund my campaigns. Votes: 6,385 with the closest competitor garnering only 718 votes. How I campaigned: I networked on the ground to know the right people to use as my campaign agents. I had strategised well. I also made early preparations that included hiring of vehicles and public address systems for road shows, booking meeting venues and making branded campaign materials. I had put a lot of resources and machinery in the campaigns. As early as 5am, people were queuing and I could actually see myself winning. The challenges: With my small body structure, it has taken sweat to convince the elder generation to vote for me. The campaigns have been time consuming. My opponents were well-known people and aged over 50. How I made it: My campaign messages were open and acceptable across the board. This way, women, youth and men could identify with my manifesto. Vision: I intend to make quality education accessible through provision of bursaries and making them accessible, equipping libraries in every school, while mentoring students and motivating teachers. This will eradicate poverty in 10 to 15 years. Parting shot: If you follow the three P’s – patience, perseverence and persistence; you will definitely achieve whatever you want. The campaign journey has just started, I have to work three times harder than before. It is either a win or a win. There is no gamble.  Women should chase their dreams  Grace Sundukwa, former student leader at Masinde Muliro University Age: 24 Votes garnered:  1,603 against closest competitior’s 527. Post: Ward rep, Sitikho ward, Bungoma County How I campaigned:  Family, friends and villagers at Ngwelo village in Webuye West fundraised for me. I was always on foot or motorbike with a team of three people doing door-to-door campaigns. Occasionally, I would meet groups of women, youth and elders, and sell my manifesto. So far, I have spent Sh70,000 in my campaigns. The challenges: A deep-rooted culture in the villages propagates a false notion that women cannot bring any development in a society. As such, the society prefers to have men in political leadership. How I made it:  I convinced the men, women and youth that women can do better than men in leadership and development. It was not easy. I had to give examples of women who have brought transformative change in society and illustrate that women can lead and champion development while still respecting men. Vision: I intend to mentor youth for self-employment since both the government and private sector cannot provide jobs for all youth. It is within my interest to empower boys, women and girls. The boy-child has been left behind. I will ensure that dispensaries are well equipped, and that they are fully staffed. The provision of clean water and improved road infrastructure will open up the villages to development. Creating an enabling environment for doing business is very key. Parting shot: Women should chase their dreams and put God first.  This is my gateway to a thriving political career  Leyola Lemarkat, former student leader at Mount Kenya University. Age: 27 Post: Ward rep, Maralal, Samburu County Votes: 2,152 against closest competitor’s 2,140. How I campaigned: I sold my goats to fund the campaigns. I also had the back-up of friends and morans from the ‘Likishami’ age-set. Each one of them gave me a goat to sell. The challenges: My competitors were well-resourced, they used big branded vehicles to campaign, had connections and millions to splash. I was using a boda boda that a friend had donated. This did not discourage me but at some point I felt overpowered. My next challenge now is to bring my opponents closer so that they can support my bid. How I made it: The primaries were highly competitive. Fortunately, with support from the Samburu and Turkana morans, I managed to trounce five other aspirants, including two nominated MCAs, a former presidential escort, and two business people.  It was a campaign of both Turkana and Samburu youth against the old generation as they need someone who is exposed, and can bring the communities together. Given my university education and exposure as a former Sports minister at Mount Kenya University Students Association, I stood out as their best bet. Vision: I want to enhance youth participation in leadership and governance so that they too can enjoy the fruits of devolution. That is why I coined my political slogan ‘Tumechezwa Sana’. On top of my vision is to enhance equal distribution of resources and bring water closer to the people. I will sensitise the population to acquire identity cards, enhance security and a safe environment for business people and champion for youth and women empowerment. Parting shot: I am confident that this will be my first job and I will do my best to build a thriving political career.  It was a tough race: Two women versus 11 men  Irene Chebichi Cheruiyot, former nominated MCA Age: 30 Post: Soin Ward rep, Rongai Constituency, Kericho County Votes: 1,997 against my next competitor, who is my immediate neighbour (we share a fence) 1,666 votes. How I campaigned: I held rallies, door-to-door campaigns, roadshows and closed-door meetings with special groups like youth leaders, women leaders, and village elders. It took a lot of effort. The challenges: I had put aside some money for the campaigns which ran out faster than I had anticipated. Eleven of my opponents  were men who had resources, and we were only two women. My experience on the campaign trail was very bad as some of the male aspirants were spreading false information about me. I was not prepared for the propaganda. It was hectic trying to counteract the rumours every day. Culture was another barrier. Most of the old men could not easily accept change that a woman can be la eader. But eventually, I got their support. How I made it: I had friends who were ready to assist me, and my relatives also cooperated so much. They all fundraised for me. I committed my bid to God and I never badmouthed any aspirant. People saw my sincerity. I just focused on what I intended to do to my people, if they elected me. My manifesto stole the voters’ hearts. Vision: To provide clean water, which is a big problem in Rongai. I also intend to ensure that health centres and dispensaries are well stocked with medicine and are well-staffed.  The building and equipping of early childhood development education classrooms, and hiring of ECD teachers will go a long way.  I am cut for a political career  Victor Munyasya Marende I am a former student leader at the Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology. I earned the name Marende back in high school, when I was elected speaker in the school debating club. My classmates would later carry the name to university. They elected me as the secretary-general of Jomo Kenyatta University Students Association (2014-2016). Age:26 Post: Ward rep, Chuluni, Kitui County. Votes garnered: I led with 2,432 votes, and my closest opponent got 2,114. How I campaigned: With the financial aid and goodwill of young professionals and youth from Chuluni, I held more than 20 political rallies. The young professionals in my ward donated their vehicles for the rallies, I also hired motorbikes to reach the inaccessible areas. I branded myself as a ‘son who is seeking to serve’. I was armed with the promises of making Chuluni great. I tapped into the power of the youth. Youth have  the numbers. I packaged myself as appealing to them. I convinced the older generation to bank their hopes on me as their son by supporting my bid so that together we can make Chuluni great. The challenges: The fact that I am very young, elderly men are questioning why I don’t have a wife or a family, yet I am seeking more responsibilities that come with a political office. My party’s nominations were not any better than any other party’s . There were many cases of irregularities, voter bribery, manipulation of figures by presiding officers, inadequate ballot papers and instances where voting took place at night on the eve of the polling day. I had to put up a fierce battle. My main challenger was strong as he had previously vied twice and lost closely in 2013. How I made it: Having been a student leader at the university, I stood higher than my opponents in the eyes of the youth. It is the youth’s votes that placed me at the top. Being a first-timer in politics, I was seen as untainted and incorruptible. Vision: I intend to serve as a ward representative for two terms and later serve as Kitui East MP, and then go for the Kitui gubernatorial seat. I will do a good job for my people. There is water scarcity in the ward. With my training in agricultural engineering, I know how to harvest water. With county resources, I will make water available for both domestic and agricultural use. I will address the poor road network in order to open up the interior of Chuluni and make it accessible. I intend to help youth and women to register companies in groups so that they can be considered for tenders by the county government. Parting shot: It is time for the youth to lead. Let us refuse to accept handouts and vote wisely. We are leaders of today, not tomorrow.  Got feedback on this story? Email lifeandstyle@ke.nationmedia.com  