Twice in as many days, a Senate committee has refused to consider the financial statement of Uasin Gishu County after Governor Jackson Mandago gave its meeting a wide berth. Also kicked out were senior county officials from Bomet after Governor Isaac Ruto failed to show up for what they said were personal commitments elsewhere. SURCHARGE In both cases, the House committee ordered the two county governments to surcharge all the officials who travelled to Nairobi for the meeting the per diem they earned because it amounted to waste of resources and time for the committee. Proof of recovery of the funds must be submitted to the Senate when the two governors appear before the committee next time, the Public Accounts and Investments Committee ruled. Vice-chairman John Lonyangapuo ordered that the funds be recovered from Mr Mandago’s and Mr Ruto’s personal accounts as the officers travelled to Nairobi on their instructions. Speaking to the media outside the committee room, Uasin Gishu Deputy Governor Daniel Chemno expressed dissatisfaction with the committee’s position, arguing that as the principal deputy to the governor, he wields executive power. QUERIES “Senator Lonyangapuo is the vice-chair of the committee, but he is exercising executive power in this committee,” he said. “As deputy governor, I also enjoy similar powers.” This was the second time in as many days Mr Mandago has failed to appear before the committee, which is considering audit queries in counties for the 2014/15 financial year. He had failed to appear before the committee Wednesday as scheduled and instead sent his deputy to represent him. But the committee refused to give Mr Chemno a hearing because House rules only recognise the governor as the CEO of the county. REPORT The committee went on to issue summons, asking Mr Mandago to appear on Thursday morning or the committee will consider the audit and prepare a report without his response. When the committee resumed sittings on Thursday morning, it was Mr Chemno who once again showed up. Mr Lonyangapuo refused to give him a hearing and ordered him out. Separately, Bomet Finance Executive David Cheruiyot was also kicked out after he failed to explain the whereabouts of his boss, only saying that he had a personal commitment. PROTEST The measure to surcharge the officers for the travel allowances they earned was proposed by Senator Liza Chelule (nominated, Jubilee) after she complained that the governors were taking the committee up the garden path. “The purpose of the committee is not to waste public funds. We are here for serious business and it is important that governors must show some kind of consideration to this committee,” she said. “We must adopt more serious measures to show the governors that we are not here for a child’s play.” While supporting Ms Chelule, Senator Boni Khalwale (Kakamega, UDF) noted the officers were not to blame as they had appeared to the committee in their official capacities. JUNE 7 “I support that we surcharge them the per diem, but we must charge it on the governors’ personal accounts because the authority of the officials to travel to Nairobi was given by the governors.” The two governors have been ordered to separately appear before the committee on June 7, with a warning that failure to comply may force the committee to contemplate other measures that may not be favourable to them. The committee has revealed that it plans to have a meeting with key state agencies on May 24 to explore ways of ensuring that governors who have rejected its summons are not cleared to contest the General Election.  