Anyone who seeks to change his name to Joshua after attaining the age of 70 years, and several public baptisms later, deserves to be treated with great circumspection. On the day Mr Raila Odinga was named as the presidential candidate for the National Super Alliance, he declared himself to be the biblical Joshua, thus confirming long-held suspicions that he was an agent of foreign powers. Both the Koran and the Bible recognise Joshua and Caleb as foremost spies. A SPY Mr Odinga’s adoption of the Joshua moniker cannot have been accidental. His visit this week to Israel, the cradle of espionage, only a few months to the General Election, is a dead giveaway. It must be concluded that he has gone to consort with his runners who are too afraid to visit Kenya. His visit to the Wailing Wall, a shameless imitation of President Uhuru Kenyatta’s religious pilgrimage to the Holy Sites last year, is a thin cover for his spying missions. Were Mr Odinga humble, he would have consulted President Kenyatta and learnt before going that God does not understand Roman script, and unless he had a scribe to transcribe his wishes into Hebrew, he would have no audience. MILITIA LEADERWere it not for the prevailing fluid political season, he would be closely questioned by the Directorate of Criminal Investigations, the Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions and any other directorate that would keep him away from right-thinking Kenyans. Mr Odinga’s public confession of espionage must now be accompanied by details of names, dates, missions and intentions. His adoption of the persona of a violent biblical figure, a notorious militia leader who led the Israelites into hare-brained battles only saved by God should give Kenyans cause for pause. The Kenyan Joshua is arriving 54 years after the children of Israel arrived in Canaan. LAND ALLOCATION If the country is already a middle income economy, on the cusps of launching a bullet train, and electricity connected to every homestead, what more can Mr Odinga bring? A curious attribute that the biblical Joshua had was the allocation of land, a subject beloved of Mr Odinga. There is no land left in Kenya for allocation, especially after the government issued three million new land title deeds. People must work hard and not expect free land, cheap food and rent reductions as if this is a Communist country. Despite Mr Odinga’s opposition to Kenya’s involvement in the war in Somalia, and his entreaties to pull troops out, his Joshua intentions are very warlike. ONE-TERM PRESIDENT He will be leading people into battle, where thousands will be killed in order to complete his transformation into a military commander. Mr Odinga, just like Jomo Kenyatta before him, is a leader unto darkness and death. Those who do not like him will most likely be condemned to putting their spindly and hairy legs on public display through the enforced wearing of short trousers. They will also be required to sneeze into their elbows. There is little solace in Mr Odinga’s assurance that he will only be at the helm for one term of five years. KENYA AT A STANDSTILL Biblical time is never measured in chronological years. Seven days could easily turn out to be seven years. One presidential term could very well be 50 years. Here is a man who, quite unable to complete his task within the allocated time, will not be ashamed to ask for the impossible. Joshua, in the Bible, asked God to stop the sun and the moon so that he could complete his battles in daylight. As the rest of the world will be moving forward, Kenya will be at a standstill because of Joshua. kwamchetsi@formandcontent.co.ke  