Seven days after President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Jamhuri Day attack last year on unnamed foreign powers for allegedly seeking to influence Kenya’s elections, an America-funded organisation was banned. The ban came through a letter from Mr Fazul Mahamed, the executive director of the NGO Coordination Board, who said the pro-democracy organisation, International Foundation for Electoral System, was illegally operating in Kenya. The ban was, however, challenged in court. And four days after the five principals of the National Super Alliance (Nasa) lined up to challenge Mr Kenyatta during the August 8 General Election, a bombshell was dropped on Kalonzo Musyoka, who had been revealed as the running mate of Nasa flag-bearer Raila Odinga. ACCOUNTS FROZEN A foundation named after Mr Musyoka, which is marketed as a source of help for the poor, had its accounts shut. Again the source of the bad news was Mr Mahamed, who in a May 2 letter said the accounts of the Kalonzo Musyoka Foundation had been frozen as investigations continued. Mr Musyoka has said it is all a political witch-hunt. Last year, the Executive appeared to have acted fast to give Mr Mahamed a lifeline after his suspension by Devolution Cabinet Secretary Mwangi Kiunjuri. In his October 19, 2016 decision, Mr Kiunjuri sent Mr Mahamed on compulsory leave pending investigations on his academic qualifications. This time it is not Mr Mahamed who wrote but the Presidency. In a directive dated October 28, 2016, an order was issued that the co-ordination board be moved to the Interior ministry, meaning Mr Mahamed had a new lease of life under Interior Cabinet Secretary Joseph Nkaissery, away from Mr Kiunjuri’s ministry and his planned probe. POLITICALLY MOTIVATED Whether or not Mr Mahamed’s actions are politically motivated is a subject of debate. But ever since he took up his job at the NGO Coordination Board in November 2014, after a stint at the National Authority for the Campaign Against Alcohol and Drug Abuse  where he served as a director, Mr Mahamed has stepped on many toes. In terms of the enemies he has made, he dwarfs his predecessor, Dr Hezron McObewa, who was a candidate at the recently held ODM nominations in the race for Kisumu governor. Almost every turn Mr Mahamed takes seems to add to the number of people who want him out, and the ghost of his questionable Egerton University degree is ever hovering over him. It is a matter that is being investigated by the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission. ALLEGED FORGERY One of the people who have previously criticised him is former chairman of the Commission of Administrative Justice (CAJ), Mr Otiende Amollo. Mr Amollo, in November 2016, released a report saying Mr Mahamed should not have been in public office due to alleged forgery of his documents. “He presented forged academic documents and false information during the interview. Furthermore, he has been found culpable of abuse of power and misconduct,” the Obudsman’s report said, adding that Mr Mahamed should not take public office “for violating Chapter six of the Constitution”. While many have gone to court to seek redress against Mr Mahamed’s directives, he is also adept at using the courts to secure his ground. When the Ombudsman’s report was released, for instance, he said he had obtained orders barring publication of the report, but Mr Amollo argued that the case was overtaken by events. Another bitter critic is Prof Makau Mutua, chairman of the Kenya Human Rights Commission (KHRC). JUBILEE CRITICS In a stinging newspaper article published in January, Prof Mutua made rubbish of all Mr Mahamed’s moves, especially that of fighting the KHRC. The organisation has not escaped Mr Mahamed’s wrath. Given his battles against entities associated with Jubilee critics, among them Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero, Mr Musyoka, and Prof Mutua, there is perception of Mr Mahamed as a biased referee, something he often denies. “Mr Mohamed is doubtlessly Jubilee’s hatchet man. But there’s more than meets the eye. Mr Mohamed shouldn’t be in office as the CEO of the NGO Board. He’s a fraud and an imposter. He’s got zero qualifications for that office,” wrote Prof Mutua.  