In this interactive series "Ask your Question", we invite readers to send in questions to select public figures. This week, Tourism Cabinet Secretary Najib Balala responds to your questions.  Sir, you can be a better technocrat than a politician. What plans has your ministry put in place to ensure influx of international tourists to Kenya, notwithstanding the threats emanating from al-Shaabab and other violent extremists? Rono Arnold, Eldoret Security concern is a global phenomenon and Kenya has continued to appeal to the international community to join in the war against acts of terrorism even as the country puts measures in place to crack down on extremists. The government has also made a deliberate effort to enhance the budgets allocated to security as well as resources including equipment and recruitment of additional personnel. The Tourism Police Unit (TPU), an initiative by the government, is dedicated to the safety of all tourists visiting cities of Mombasa and Nairobi and other tourist areas. We have just concluded our Tourism 2030 strategy which will inform how we market, develop our products and enhance our collaboration with both the county governments and stakeholders.  Some time back, you initiated the refurbishment of MacMillan Castle in Ol Donyo Sabuk. However, this project stopped and today it is an eyesore. What plans are in place to complete the project? T. N. Mwangiu, Mohuhi This was one of the projects under the Tourism Trust Fund supported by European Union. After initiation, further consultations between the donors, partners and other government agencies agreed that there was need for further in-depth scientific studies to establish the specific roles of each of the participating parties. Once these are done, the project will be fully implemented.  I am a young entrepreneur trying to put up a resort in Baringo County. My resort is strategically situated at the equator line and has a potential to grow into a major tourism destination. Unfortunately, it has been hard to actualise my dream due to financial constraints. Can your ministry intervene in funding young entrepreneurs like me to actualise their dreams? Gerald Bittok, Mogotio Baringo I must congratulate you for the move. Tourism Finance Corporation (TFC) is a corporate body established as a specialised Development Financial Institution (DFI) with the mandate of facilitating and providing development funding for long-term investment in Kenya’s tourism industry. TFC provides financing for various conventional products which include working capital facility, development loan, expansion and refurbishment facility, asset finance facility, re-financing facility, energy efficiency facility and small and medium term enterprise loans. TFC also offers advisory services to facilitate investments in the hospitality industry. It is critical for youth to have the expertise in developing such facilities. For any financial assistance for development of tourism facilities, kindly get in touch with TFC at Utalii House, Nairobi.  There appears to be over-reliance on beach tourism. What is your ministry doing to revamp tourism in Western Kenya? Okello DG, Kisumu The core tourism products for the country are “safari” and beach, which Kenya enjoys comparative advantage over other destinations. Kenya has diverse tourism products. Besides the beach and wildlife safari, the country is known for culture, sports, use of high altitude training camps, conference tourism, water sports and birding among others. The ministry, in collaboration with counties, encourages diversification of our tourism products. With specific respect to Western Kenya, we are exploring the promotion of cultural tourism and nature based activities like Kakamega Forest hiking or birding.  Can Kenya now claim to have bounced back in attracting tourists after suffering major setbacks as a result of the threat posed by terrorism, thus losing out to other destinations in East Africa? David M. Kigo, Nairobi Kenya has not lost out – it is the destination to beat in the region. In fact on a positive note, the collaboration among the East African Community (EAC) member states is taking tourism business to the next level. For example, we have a collaborative tourism marketing strategy within the EAC region. We have launched a joint EAC single tourist visa currently valid for Kenya, Uganda and Rwanda; and we have recently launched a joint tourism online portal for Kenya, Uganda and Rwanda. Within the EAC region, Kenya’s diverse tourism experiences are unmatched. Beyond our flagship wildlife and beach tourism products, magical Kenya offers a lot more: deep sea diving, deep sea fishing, sky diving, swimming with dolphins, whale-shark spotting, running with champions in Iten, river rafting, horse-back trekking, mountain climbing among others.  I believe one strategy to boost tourism in the counties is through establishing tourism promotion centres in every county. Each county should also have tourism promotion tents in all leading global tourist catchment markets. Has your ministry considered this potentially job-creating venture? Ichenga Mugao, Tharaka Nithi The ministry, through the Kenya Tourism Board (KTB), has put in place a framework to engage county governments and is centred on tourism development with emphasis on coordinated tourism destination branding, product mapping, product inventory, packaging, promotions and joint marketing programmes. The new Tourism Blue Print 2030 advocates creation of seven regional tourism boards, which will be responsible for marketing the counties. The boards have been clustered based on the existing itinerary or similar experiences of the regions. We are in the process of finalising the modalities of setting up the regional boards.  The deteriorating performance of our tourism sector has been linked to al-Shabaab insurgence in the country. But now with less cases of this nature, what is the accurate assessment of the tourism industry today? Francis Njuguna, Kibichoi Our tourism sector is on an upward trajectory; the security is no longer an issue of concern owing to measures put in place. Incentives put in place by government such as visa fee waiver for children below 16 years, reduction of park fees and improved infrastructure are contributing to the growth of the sector. The total international arrivals for January to December 2016 by air and sea closed at 877,602 compared to 752,073 in 2015, illustrating an increase of 16.7 per cent. JKIA arrivals grew by 16.2 per cent to a record 782,013 compared to 672,789 in 2015. Moi International Airport Mombasa, on the other hand, received 92,872 visitors, compared to 75,983 in 2015, a 22.2 per cent growth. The total consolidated arrivals for 2016 are 1,307,351, a 10.4 per cent growth over 2015 that recorded 1,183,847.  Why is Ronald Ngala Utalii College at the coast still not complete despite the project consuming billions of taxpayers’ money? Can you assure the public that the project is not another white elephant? Andrew Maranga Ratemo, Malindi Kenya Utalii College (KUC) has been the premier training institution, which has maintained very high standards of training for the sector. The setting up of a second national tourism training institution was in recognition of the critical role that the coast region plays in the tourism industry. The new institution – Ronald Ngala Utalii College – is a Vision 2030 flagship project financed by National Treasury and Tourism Fund. When the government was voted to power in March 2013, consultations informed the decision to review and down-scale the project, which gave guidance on the continued implementation of the project that is now on-going. If funding is made available towards the actualisation of the institution as planned, the project is expected to be fully operational by June 2018. Currently Sh2.4 billion of works have been implemented and tremendous efforts have gone into the detailed project to ensure attainment of 48.7 per cent of its completion.  Baringo County hosts some of the renowned tourist destinations in the country. However, for some time now, serious insecurity has been witnessed there. By giving us actual numbers, how has the prevailing insecurity in the region impacted on the numbers of tourists visiting that county? What would be your advice to the incoming county leadership on the revival and sustainability of the sector? Komen Moris, Eldoret Security is key to all economic activities, tourism included, and county governments should pay keen attention in ensuring security is in place.  Improved security at the coast, coupled with your timely appointment to the ministry, greatly boosted tourism at the coast. However, many feel that the antagonistic relations between the President and Mombasa Governor continue to jeopardise these gains and negatively impact on tourism revival, especially in Mombasa County. What is your take on this? Komen Moris, Eldoret Our Constitution obligates the two levels of government to continuously consult, collaborate, co-operate and complement each other’s efforts, as they work for the benefit of mwananchi. The same Constitution calls upon leaders at both levels to conduct public affairs in a dignified, respectful and transparent manner that does not demean the offices and officers, respectively. I am sure that political differences will not jeopardise the gains achieved in the tourism sector, particularly in the coastal region.  Why does Mombasa’s sheen seem to be disappearing fast in the eye of the international tourist? Githuku Mungai The coastal region contributes about 60 per cent of total tourist arrivals to the country. This region remains key to tourism survival. It is the place to visit and tourists still throng the region. It is not true that those tourists are running away from the coast. The past incidents of insecurity that scared away tourists from the region have been addressed.  Your ticket to the cabinet was by supporting President Uhuru Kenyatta in 2013 and your party was among those that merged to form the Jubilee Party. It is without a doubt that you are still active politically. Do you have plans to make a comeback to elective politics in the future? If so, which position would you be eyeing? Hussein O. Said, Mvita I have no plans of seeking an elective post in the up-coming elections, but will consider my options in future. I believe at the moment, my position enables me to serve all Kenyans well under the leadership of the President.  Elections come with unintended consequences, politically and security-wise. What plans does your ministry have to ensure that the tourism sector withstands the political shocks and remain on its growth trajectory after elections? Joy Mbithi, Makueni The ministry in collaboration with other tourism stakeholders has established a Crisis Communication Committee tasked to manage all potential crises that may arise and ensure there is minimal or no shock to the tourism growth trajectory. Most of our source markets are not jittery about the elections as evidenced by increased bookings during the said period. Besides, the elections are a one-day affair and Kenya has conducted two major elections since 2007 that is the 2010 referendum and 2013 General Election, all of which have been peaceful.  Sir, not long ago, the government spent millions of shillings in marketing Kenya as a tourist destination of choice, including buying advertising space on CNN and other platforms. What has been the net effect of the campaign? Athman Mohammed, Mombasa Campaigns may not record immediate results. The impact is, however, long-term. Besides CNN media campaigns, KTB has put in place other marketing and promotional campaigns aimed at creating top-of-mind awareness about the destination and enhancing brand visibility.  