The Kenya Meteorological Department has warned of sustained heavy rainfall in several parts of the country over the next five days as the long rains season continues. Talking to the Nation by phone on Friday, Director Peter Ambenje said it is not unusual to experience intense rains at this time of the year. “It is not something unusual as we had already forecasted that intense rainfall would be experienced in most places in the country in our last seven-day weather forecast,” said Mr Ambenje. On Thursday, rains wreaked havoc in different parts of the country, as residents were caught unawares by sudden downpours that left a trail of destruction and impaired transport services.   Mombasa and Nyeri counties bore the brunt of the rains, with the former experiencing flooded streets, social amenities and hospitals following two days of heavy rains in the county. Residents of Nairobi County also faced heavy downpours in the evening as most were caught unprepared. According to the meteorological department’s latest five-day forecast covering May 5 to May 9, the weatherman predicts showers and thunderstorms in several places during the afternoon in the five days. The Central Highlands, covering the Nairobi region, Nyandarua, Laikipia, Nyeri, Kirinyaga, Murang'a, Kiambu, Meru, Embu and Tharaka Nithi counties, will see showers in the afternoon for the five days, with sunny intervals recorded in the morning and the possibility of rains over some places.   Low temperatures of 9 degrees Celsius and highs of 25 have also been predicted by the weatherman. In areas covering the Lake Victoria Basin, the Highlands west of the Rift Valley, Central and South Rift Valley — covering Siaya, Kisumu, Homa Bay, Migori, Kisii, Nyamira, Trans Nzoia, Baringo, Uasin Gishu, Elgeyo-Marakwet, Nandi, Nakuru, Narok, Kajiado, Kericho, Bomet, Kakamega, Vihiga, Bungoma and Busia counties — will see showers and thunderstorms over several places. But this belt will see sunny intervals in the morning over the period under forecast. Temperatures will hit lows of 12 degrees and highs of 28. The Coastal strip, stretching through the five counties of Mombasa, Tana River, Kilifi, Lamu and Kwale, will mostly have showers over several places in the morning and in the afternoon over others.   Temperatures will fall between 22 and 30 degrees. The southeastern counties of Kitui, Makueni, Machakos and Taita-Taveta are also expected to see showers or the possibility of showers over some places in the afternoon over the period. In the morning, sunny intervals will be recorded, with temperatures ranging between 15 and 30 degrees. But the north-western counties of Turkana, West Pokot and Samburu and parts of the northeastern counties of Marsabit, Mandera, Wajir, Garissa and Isiolo will see sunny intervals in the afternoon, with rains over some places expected only in the morning for the first two days of the forecast and also on the last day. Temperatures will hit highs of 38 degrees and lows of 17. According to the weatherman’s forecast of February this year, the onset of the long rains season was forecasted to begin between the third and fourth week of March in most places in the country and go on until the third week of May. In some places, such as the Lake Basin, the Highlands west of the Rift Valley, southeastern counties, the southern region and the northern Coastal strip, the rains might continue well into June.  