Kenyatta University s Blak Blad on Saturday upset Mwamba 17-12 to storm Enterprise Cup quarterfinals at Kenyatta University grounds.A brace of tries from winger Brian Kadenge, one try from eighth-man skipper Wesley Kidinga and fly-half Levi Amunga s conversion were enough to send the varsity students to their first Enterprise Cup quarters. It was also heir maiden win over Mwamba in all competitions. Eighth-man Louis Kisia and substitute Paul Machanje touched down each in the second half but a late rally from Mwamba, who trailed 10-0 to the break, proved futile even after George Mutuku made one conversion.Blak Blad will now face defending champions Kenya Commercial Bank (KCB) in the quarterfinals on Saturday. It feels great to beat Mwamba for the first time to also make to the Enterprise Cup quarters for the first time, said Kidinga. It was a tough battle but the KCB hurdle will be much tougher. We shall plan well for it. KCB are fresh from reclaiming the Kenya Cup title after beating Kabras Sugar 36-8 two weeks ago. The two sides also faced-off in last year s Enterprise Cup final where KCB retained the title after winning 24-12.QUINS EDGE NAKURUAlso advancing to the quarterfinals were Kenya Harlequin, Homeboyz and Nondescripts after wading off stiff challenge from their opponents.Quins edged out a battling Nakuru 28-20 at the RFUEA grounds to set up the Ngong Road derby in the quarterfinal against Resolution Impala Saracens while Homeboyz rallied from 7-5 down at half time to down Western Bulls 32-10 at the Bullring, Kakamega.Homeboyz will now meet Strathmore Leos in the quarterfinal at Madaraka.Nondies crushed visiting Mean Machine from the University of Nairobi 19-5 at the Jamhuri Park show grounds to set up Kabras Sugar in Kakamega.At RFUEA grounds, Quins, who led 17-10 at the break, scored four tries, a conversion and two penalties against Nakuru s two converted tries and two penalties. Quins tries from left wing Brian Odera, outside centre David Ambunya and right wing Ginton Adongo and Wandera s conversion gave Quins a 17-10 cushion at the drinks. Fly-half Geoff Ominde converted outside centre Dennis Omondi s try besides a penalty for Nakuru s first half scores.Full-back Isaac Shikuku added another try for Quins while fly-half Isaac Adimo and substitute Kevin Keegan scored a penalty each Homeboyz scored four tries against Western Bulls through Tony Khadambi, Stanley Isogol, Cyprian Kuto and Elisha Okello as Kevin Masai made three conversions. Masai and Brian Gisemba scored a penalty each for Homeboyz.Tries from Ben Nyambu, Peter Lugano and Cedric Odera spurred Nondies over Machine with Biko Adema finishing it off with a conversion. COLLATED RESULTSBlak Blad 17-12 Mwamba, Nondescripts 19-5 Mean Machine, Quins 28-20 Nakuru, Western Bulls 20-32 Homeboyz. email print email print