Besides keeping poultry, I also teach farmers various aspects of rearing chickens and other birds. I started the courses over a year ago due to demand from farmers, who after receiving a handout I was sharing for beginners, they asked for training. One big lesson I have taken from the classes is that most concepts can’t be concretised from reading only, thus, face-to-face interviews enhance clarity and knowledge-sharing. During the lessons, I have come to understand what seasoned and upcoming farmers want in any poultry start-up classes. One of the most important things we discuss is the science and art of formulating feeds. These involve sourcing for quality raw materials, costing, selecting ingredients, weighing, mixing the right proportions, packaging and testing the quality of the final product. Many farmers are grappling with a high cost of commercial feeds, which account for 60 to 70 per cent of the total cost of producing eggs and meat. Depending on the cost of raw materials, one can save between 30 and 50 per cent of this by formulating their own. Before you start a poultry farm, you also need to understand basic concepts such as disease control and vaccination, housing plans, sourcing for day-old chicks, brooding, feeding, branding and marketing, costing, farm bio-security and record-keeping. Further, you need to have an idea of how to develop a poultry business plan and the birds you will keep. TYPES OF BIRDS TO KEEP For sure, I can’t remember how many times I have been asked on the latter in my classes. And often, whenever I ask my students if they have settled on their target product, that is, whether they planned to rear chicken for meat, eggs or both, they stare at me with bewilderment. “Before venturing into poultry business, whether keeping indigenous or exotic chicken, one must consider the cost of production, market opportunities, including prices for eggs and meat and customer preferences,” I normally advise. “If your target market is chicken meat, then go for broilers. On the other hand, if you are targeting market for eggs, go for exotic layers.” Here’s the thing, exotic breeds may be less-resistant to diseases and demand high standards of husbandry, but they are very productive in terms of eggs and meat. An exotic bird such as the Leghorn can lay up to 300 eggs in a year under good management compared to 50 to 100 eggs for ordinary indigenous birds raised under free-range systems. The broiler chicken, on the other hand, is ready for the market between six and eight weeks. What about the improved indigenous birds? Many ask, especially because they have information that the birds consume less feeds, are tolerant to most diseases, have a ready market and fetch more money. Another information people have, which is to help them choose birds to keep, is that customers are increasingly opting for Kienyeji meat because it is tasty and lean and the yolk tends to be yellow. GOOD MANAGEMENT Under good management, improved indigenous breeds like Kenbros, Kari Improved and Kuroilers can produce between 220 and 250 eggs a year. However, because of the long maturity period of up to six months, it costs more to raise an improved indigenous bird for meat, unlike the broilers that mature at six to eight weeks. That means that under intensive management systems, it costs more to raise an indigenous chicken for meat compared to a broiler chicken. One option I normally propose to my students is to rear indigenous chicken under semi-intensive system after two months to reduce the cost of feeds. However, according to the experts, under free-range systems, you require one acre for 600 indigenous birds, meaning that for 5,000 birds, the limit for making a poultry venture economically viable, you will need eight acres. If you get an opportunity to attend poultry classes, do your research well to ensure you don’t miss anything you need to know. *** Your Questions Answered Bethwell: I started a poultry project in November last year, and my problem is that the production is very low despite giving the birds quality feeds and egg booster. Please advise before I dispose off the birds due to high costs. I assume you are rearing hens. In addition to the quality of feeds, the health status of the birds (diseases reduce egg production), you need to consider management aspects as the birds were growing up. Send me a reminder to share how to manage light as hens grow up. Jotham Ouko: I can supply omena, a source of protein for chickens. Anyone in need to get in touch with Jotham at oukopvt@yahoo.com. George Owino, Siaya: I plan to rear 100 to 200 layers. Advise on budget Send me an email for a free budget template that I use to train farmers. King’ori Choto: I have started rearing poultry because of your articles. Thank you and keep reading. Eve Mtegha, Malawi: I read your diary on the internet. Please share with me your chicken houses designs and photos. Please send me an email for a guide.   Farmer in shock after neighbour claims a section of his land hosting his poultry house, but it all ended well