Kiambu Governor William Kabogo has insisted he owns a piece of land in Westlands worth an estimated Sh3.5 billion despite City Hall and the Lands ministry disputing his claim. The governor appeared in court this week and said he acquired the land after an allotment by Nairobi City Council in 2003. Testifying before Justice Elijah Obaga, the governor said he duly registered the land with Ministry of Lands after paying all the requisite fees. Mr Kabogo said that he moved to court and the title was reinstated after former Lands Commissioner Zablon Mabea had cancelled it. Mr Kabogo’s company Caroget Investments Limited is claiming ownership of the land which Aster Holdings also claim to be theirs. “My company acquired title to the property pursuant to a transfer of lease from Nairobi City Council to whom the property was allotted. Caroget paid Nairobi City Council the fees and charges for the property,” he said. When he was cross examined by lawyer Cohen Amanya, the governor said that the city council had informed them that the land belonged to them (city council) hence the need to allocate it. Surveyor Pricilla Njeri from Survey of Kenya, while testifying, said that the deed plan used to register land in favour of the governor’s company does not exist. 'DEED PLAN' “I can confirm to the court that the only deed plan at the Survey of Kenya records is the one by Aster Holdings,” she said. City Hall valuer Isaac Nyoike told the court that the defunct Nairobi City Council had erred in issuing the allotment to Caroget after discovering the land is private. “City council erroneously made the opinion that it owned the land only to discover later that the land was private. Therefore there was need to cancel it,” he said. Senior land registration officer Edwin Wafula said the ministry only recognised the documents produced by Aster Limited. The two companies are claiming ownership to the 7.5 acres piece of land situated along Church Road off Waiyaki Way, Nairobi Aster Holdings Limited in documents filed in court in 2010 claimed that it was the sole owner of the plot since 1993 when they were two separate plots but successfully applied for a single title added in 2001. Caroget Investments whose directors include Governor Kabogo and Esther Njeri Gitau claimed ownership to the piece of land in 2006 starting a legal storm that is yet to be solved. The case resumes on June 30.  