Q. I am a 28-year-old driver for a mailing company. I have a seven-year-old son who wants to become a driver when he grows up. While I did not get a college education, I want my son to get the best possible education, and an attractive job. How do I explain to him that he needs to follow a different career path without painting my job as inferior, which I strongly feel it is?  Thank you for sharing your challenge with us. Your son is still very young, and the reason he feels attracted to what you do is because he considers you his role model. At this tender age, he may not understand much about other jobs and professions, to him, the fact that you work hard and provide for his needs is the best thing happening now. It would be good to ask him why he admires what you do and see what drives his interest: it could be that he likes the car you drive or perhaps admires your driving skills - whatever he says, you have an opportunity to redirect this interest to the important dreams you have for him. For instance, if he says that he admires your job because the car you drive represents a level of accomplishment, you have a good opportunity to explain to him the relationship between you and your employer, and who owns the car. Since this young man trusts you at this tender age, he is likely to listen to your advice and you can open his mind to other professions. One sure way of doing this without making your job look small is explaining the importance of what you do and why you do it. Drivers may do menial jobs, but they are just as important at the workplace as other employees. Being a driver does not mean you are poor, there are many ways you can create wealth and even be an employer of very skilled and specialised people if you are focused and plan well. You have a good opportunity to talk to your son about hard work and dedication. You also have a key lesson to teach him about the link between education and other careers. This is likely to create discipline in his pursuit of education, and with frequent encouragement, his eyes will be opened wider as his exposure at school and through other platforms increases. As for you, at 28 years, you have your life and career ahead of you. I encourage you to explore various ways of growing your career and teach your son another lesson or two. Do not allow yourself to feel limited.  