The Political Parties Disputes Tribunal on Saturday confirmed Prof Anyang Nyong o the winner of the much contested gubernatorial nomination for the Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) in Kisumu.The tribunal s head Kyalo Mbobu said the team had no jurisdiction to annul the decision made by ODM s Central Committee, which has been mandated by the National Executive Committee to deliberate and act on all internal disputes, and the decision it makes is binding. The ODM team declared Senator Nyong o the winner.The tribunal said the committee heard and determined the complaint raised by two voters: Hezron Opiyo Asudi and John Ongere. The two had told the tribunal, through lawyer James Amwamu, that Prof Nyong o was declared the winner by Mr Tom Akong o, who was not a returning officer, after allegedly marking ballots in a forest in Nyakach. Having heard the preliminary objection raised by ODM through lawyer Antony Oluoch, this tribunal holds that the decision made by the party s central committee as far as the Kisumu gubernatorial contest between Prof Nyong o, the incumbent Jack Ranguma and Dr Mac Obewa (Hezron) are binding, Mr Mbobu ruled.As a result, they confirmed Prof Nyong o as the ODM candidate for the Kisumu gubernatorial race. He will face off with Mr Ranguma who is now contesting the seat as an independent candidate.The tribunal also cancelled a certificate issued to Mwingi Central aspirant Gedion Mulyungi. Immediate former Law Society of Kenya president Eric Mutua successfully contested the nomination of his rival Mr Mulyungi as the preferred candidate.WAS PROHIBITEDWiper party was prohibited from presenting the name of Mr Mulyungi to the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission for gazettement as a candidate for the August 8 election.In the nomination, Mr Mutua is said to have garnered 3,000 more votes than Mr Mulyungi s 11,676.The tribunal further directed Wiper to democratically resolve the issue where voters in 19 polling stations did not participate in the exercise . No repeat polls were ordered for Mwingi Central. It s for Wiper to determine the issue of the 19 polling stations, said the tribunal.And in the dispute pitting Laikipia governor Joshua Irungu, aspirants Nderitu Mureithi and a former Permanent Secretary Thuita Mwangi, the tribunal enjoined about 400 voters from Laikipia North constituency.All the three Jubilee aspirants for the Laikipia governorship alleged a myriad of irregularities rocked the primaries. Jubilee Party has been stopped from issuing a nomination certificate to any of the three complainants.Apart from the Laikipia dispute, Jubilee Party was also prohibited against issuing nomination certificates to any candidate in the Limuru parliamentary race. The Limuru dispute will be heard on May 8.On Sunday, the tribunal will determine the fate of Cyprian Awiti, the governor of Homa Bay. email print email print