Following a terrorist the attack in Manchester City, UK that claimed lives of at least 19 people with the number said to have risen to 22 and leaving 59 others injured on Monday morning after Ariana Grande concert in Manchester Arena, several celebrities have sent their condolences to the families affected. Ariane Grande was heartbroken by the incident taking to Twitter to sympathise with the victims with the hashtag Manchester trending worldwide. “Broken from the bottom of my heart, I am so, so sorry. I don’t have words” she posted.Pop musician Taylor Swift, posting to her 84 million Twitter followers, sent a message of love to all affected. Female rapper Nick Minaj also tweeted to her 21 million followers that she was sorry to hear about the ugly ordeal.  Actor Dwayne ‘The Rock’ Johnson , reality show host Ellen DeGeneres and musicians J-Lo, Chris Brown, John Legend, Bruno Mars, Selena Gomez were also among star entertainers who voiced sadness and support after the  attack. Here is what they said:  Taylor Swift - “My thoughts, prayers and tears for all those affected by the Manchester tragedy tonight. I’m sending all my love.”  Nicki Minaj - “My heart hurts for my sister, Ariana & every family affected by this tragic event in the U.K. Innocent lives lost. I’m so sorry to hear this”  Ellen DeGeneres - “This story is so sad and so scary. Sending all my love to Manchester.” Chris Brown - “The World is falling apart. Wanna send my love to everyone.”  John Legend - “Sending love to the U.K., @ArianaGrande and all of her supporters who were caught up in this awful attack. Heartbreaking.”  Dwayne Johnson - “Our prayers and strength to the victims and their families involved in this tragedy in Manchester. Stay strong.”  Bruno Mars - “No words can describe how I feel about what happened in Manchester. I don’t wanna believe that the world we live in could be so cruel”  Selena Gomez - “My thoughts and prayers go out to everyone affected in Manchester.”  Demi Lovato - “Tearing up imagining innocent concert goers losing their lives… praying for everyone and all #arianators.”  Katy Perrty - “Praying for everyone at @ArianaGrande’s show”  Ellie Goulding - “Sending love to those affected in Manchester.”  Cher - “My prayers go out to ppl of manchester…had special times there from youth & beyond”  Lorde - “Every musician feels sick & responsible tonight—shows should be safe for you. Truly a worst nightmare. Sending love to Manchester & Ari”  Harry Stlyes - “I’m heartbroken over what happened in Manchester tonight. Sending love to everyone involved.”  JP Coopper - “Manchester. My home, my heart. Sending so much love and prayers to the victims and the whole city. Heartbreaking news!”  Kendall Jenner - “What happened in Manchester tonight is absolutely horrible. Sending my love and prayers to those affected.”  Yaya Toure - “Such terrible news in Manchester. Thoughts and prayers with all those affected”  