Opposition leader Raila Odinga has said he has no problem with candidates from his party who will vie as independent candidates in the forthcoming elections. Mr Odinga urged all aspirants who participated in the just concluded party primaries to now focus on the bigger picture of ensuring the opposition gets to power in August. “Let us now put the nomination behind us and concentrate on the ultimate goal of capturing power in August polls,” Mr Odinga said. Several candidates resigned from their parties after nominations and will contest for the same seats they were eyeing under the party but as independent candidates. About 1,500 aspirants have been cleared to contest various seats as independent candidates. FORMALLY ENDORSED Mr Ochillo Ayacko who had lost to Migori governor Okoth Obado, became the latest loser to ditch the Orange party to join Funyula MP Paul Otuoma, Taita-Taveta Governor John Mruttu and several MPs and MCAs in seeking clearance to run as independent candidates. Speaking at Safaricom Kasarani stadium on Friday when he was formally endorsed by the ODM delegates to contest for Presidency, Mr Odinga said he respects the choice of those who have opted to vie as independent candidates. “I respect their choice because it is their constitutional right to vie for any elective seat as independent candidate. I wish them well,” Mr Odinga said. Wiper leader and Nasa co-principal Kalonzo Musyoka however castigated those who have decided to use independent tickets saying they do not understand the vision of their respective parties. RECONCILIATION “Those who lost in the primaries and want to be independent candidates do not understand the ideologies of their parties,” Mr Musyoka said. The Wiper leader proposed a formation of reconciliation committees consisting of members of all affiliate parties in order to heal the wounds of candidates who faced off during nominations. Mr Musyoka also urged Nasa affiliate parties to stop infighting and solely focus on delivering votes to the opposition in August polls.   ODM leader says they have adopted mechanisms to tackle rigging in the August 8 polls.