Tell us a little bit about your background… I grew up in the village in Gitugi location, Mathira constituency in Murang’a County. I went to school barefooted and only wore my first pair of shoes when I joined Secondary School. After my A-levels at Njumbi High School, I  joined Marathwada University in India where I studied a Bachelor of Commerce in Accounting and Auditing. What were you known for at university? That guy who hosted friends, brought people together and operated small businesses. Most people know you as the ‘jigger doctor’, how does this  title make you feel? I take it very positively, in fact, I am humbled by it. It shows that the community has felt the impact of the work that I do and  can actually identify me with it. It is uplifting. Tell us more about your trust, and why you started the anti-jigger campaign … I was jigger-infested in childhood. When I started working, whenever I visited my family in the village, I would  notice that those I grew up with were still infested with jiggers. That was 10 years ago. I started by assisting four families, only to realise that it was a widespread problem as many other affected people came to me for help. It was beyond me. I needed a campaign to support it. I was not known, so I looked for a face that was known to Kenyans to front the campaign, hence Cecilia Mwangi, Miss Kenya 2005. So far, we have touched the lives of 2.8 million people, half of these have fully recovered, and new infections have reduced by 70 per cent. What do you consider to be some of your outstanding accomplishments so far? There is now a national policy guideline on prevention and control of jigger infestation, while March 3 was  gazetted  as the Jigger Awareness Day. We have launched livelihood projects to break the poverty cycle in various counties and eradicate jiggers. We have also distributed millions of shoes to school-going children. It is shameful for children to walk barefooted to school while carrying a laptop. By end of 2018, we want to have distributed over 10 million shoes. What advice would you give to young people who have an interest in community service? Follow your passion since community service takes a lot of sacrifice. And no good deed goes unpunished. Someone must talk ill of it. There is no profit in community service, and don’t go into it expecting recognition, appreciation or a reward. Focus on the people that you want to help and block all the negative voices. There is rumour that you are building a base for future entry into politics... My daily engagement is politics of community work, not elective politics, besides, the impact of my work surpasses that of any politician as the anti-jigger campaign is now a big movement that has gone beyond Kenya into Rwanda, Tanzania and Uganda. Do you have a mentor? My grandmother. She has always held my hand and prayed with me. She used to remove jiggers from my feet when I was young. She is 98 and we share a birthday. My parents and siblings have also consistently supported me. What would you list as the gravest mistake you made in your youth? How did you deal with it? I used to drink alcohol and smoke cigarettes. Fortunately, I was able to put a stop to the habit when I turned 25 after I realised that I had lost valuable time that I could have put into constructive work. I feel that I am a better person today. If a magic wand made you 25 again and you had a chance to change one thing about yourself then, what would it be? I would hold the hands of the friends I grew up with. I feel that they didn’t get someone to support them. We would do something together so that we could all be successful. I would launch a bigger campaign on alcohol, initiate a youth project and bring in mentors to enable the youth resolutely focus on future. Do you have any regrets? Not even one. I have turned every bad experience into a useful lesson for myself and others. I deliberately make informed choices every day to avoid saying, “I wish I knew.” Any outstanding recognitions or awards? I was awarded The presidential award and ambassador for talented and gifted children in East and Central Africa. Which is the most interesting book that you have read so far? Lessons of the Lotus, by Bhante Wimala. The greatest lesson here is that it does not matter how or where you grow up; what matters is how you reinvent yourself and attract people to your causes. Any hidden talents? I am a very good chess player. I also design my own construction and landscaping projects - with ease, I must say. What is the most important lesson you have learnt about money? There is nothing like a lot of it or a little of it. What stands out is what you achieve with what you have in hand. Also, money lying in the account does not make you successful, what does is what the money does for you. Invest your money. Got feedback on this story? E-mail lifeandstyle@ke.nationmedia.com  