The public uproar over the list of nominees to the East African Legislative Assembly is legitimate. Political leaders are taking the public for granted and must be stopped right on their tracks. It is not acceptable for them to handpick their relatives and cronies for the crucial assignment in the region. NOMINATE ON MERIT Not only does it smack of nepotism, selfishness and greed; but it also throws out of the window the cardinal principles of merit, fairness and equity. On paper, there are rules guiding the selection and nomination of the candidates. The positions are advertised, interested people apply and suitable candidates are interviewed and recommended for nomination. But in practice, these do not apply. The process is shrouded in mystery and everything is done whimsically. EALA DUTIESPoliticians resort to selecting their relatives or political loyalists and the whole thing becomes a charade. Yet, it is the very politicians who routinely preach about fair play, good governance and fidelity to the Constitution. EALA is a crucial organ of the East African Community. It legislates on matters affecting the region; approves budget and provides oversight over the EAC secretariat. In itself, the Secretariat has enormous responsibilities, ranging from coordinating political to social and economic sectors. Representatives to the assembly should necessarily be individuals with proven track records in their chosen specialties. FRESH NAMES They should bring skills, competence and knowledge to the assembly; hence add value. So when some undeserving fellows are nominated because of political affiliation, we are hurting the Community and the region at large. This is why we demand that the parties withdraw the names and present others afresh to enable Parliament make the right determination. Failure to do so, MPs themselves should throw out the names when they are presented for approval before the House. We must force politicians and party honchos to learn good manners and respect for the law. It is unacceptable to have a scenario where politicians take advantage of their positions to benefit their family members or buddies. We reject the list and urge Parliament to throw it away.  