Kenya National Union of Teacher’s top decision making organ has directed the leadership of the union to push for implementation of the teachers’ salary increment deal in two phases. Knut is set to meet the Teachers Service Commission (TSC) in the coming days following the collapse of last week’s meeting. There was disagreement over the implementation schedule of last year’s collective bargaining agreement (CBA) during a meeting in Naivasha. RESPECT TSCIn a day-long meeting, the 44 member National Executive Committee of Knut on Tuesday agreed to withdraw their demand for one phase. They now want the union leadership to engage their employer on possibilities of actualising the CBA in two phases “so that members can fully benefit”, multiple sources at the meeting said. In their proposal, TSC argued that since it is required to promote teachers and hire new ones, full implementation of the Sh54 billion deal in one phase would affect its activities. NEC also read the riot act to the top leadership of the union. “TSC has been concerned about how the Knut leadership handles issues. “We agreed that the union must start to handle the commission with respect. We advised Knut to mend fences with the employer,” a source said. INADEQUATE TIMEThe union officials were also cautioned against washing their dirty linen in public with NEC warning it will not hesitate to initiate their impeachment since they had been displaying a bad image. NEC also demanded the replacement of the legal advisor over conflict of interest. “We were concerned that the current legal advisor also serves the interests of the government and cannot ably represent teachers when they have issues with the government,” the source added. Meanwhile, Knut branches have demanded more money, saying the current budgetary allocations cannot sustain them, and proper accounting at the union headquarters. The charged meeting had to be adjourned in the evening for lack of time to deliberate on several issues. However, Knut Secretary-General Wilson Sossion said the meeting was thorough business for the union.  