A former National Assembly clerk and and ex-principal secretary are among 15 people nominated by the Jubilee Party to the East Africa Legislative Assembly (Eala). Former National Assembly Clerk Justin Bundi and former Interior PS Mutea Iringo are on the list presented by National Assembly Aden Duale for election. 58 APPLIED Also on the list is former Kamukunji MP Simon Mbugua, who was persuaded by the party to step down in favour of Yusuf Hassan. A total of 58 people applied for the job and only five of the selected 15 will be chosen to represent the party at the Arusha-based regional Parliament. The nominees are: 1.  Joe Muriithi Muriuki 2.  Mutea Iringo 3.  Eunice Wanjiru Karanja 4.  Abubakar Ogle 5.  Adan Mohamed Nooru 6.  Simon Mbugua 7.  Irene Cherop Masit 8.  Justin Nthiiri Bundi 9.  Nelson Dzuya 10. Naomi Jillo Waqo 11. Chepkemoi Saida Stacey 12. Florence Sergon 13. Justus Mate 14. Pius Atok Ewoton Cord is yet to present a list of its nominees but Mr Duale claimed that the opposition had nominated only four people out of the 41 that applied. He said there was no need for an election because Cord has only four slots. INDEPENDENTS "I have a serious problem … with the list presented by our counterparts and I will address it on the floor of the House," Mr Duale said shortly after presenting the Jubilee list at County Hall in Nairobi. Mr Duale said the Jubilee list has observed both regional and gender balance. "Look at our list — it is balanced — but our counterparts want to protect certain individuals," Mr Duale said. On independent candidates, Mr Duale said they must also be forced to comply with the same rules as political parties. ARTICLE 99 "Independent candidates must be subjected to Article 99 and they must come with 1,000 signatures," he said. "There's no escape route for them. Rules and procedures must be followed.” Nine independent candidates have applied to be elected to the regional House. They are Duncan Mwangi Ndegwa, Mohamed Adan, Thomas Katu Ngui, Odhiambo Collins Odongo, John Olusa, Walter Misire, Fredrick Kalumbo, John Kubai and Billy Baltazar. Senate Clerk Jeremiah Nyegenye, who is one of the presiding officers, said all nominees would be issued with provisional certificates before their details are verified and the final list is published.  