The year 1998 opened on a sour note for Kenya. At the end of December 1997, the country had an election in which President Daniel arap Moi was declared winner as the Opposition cried foul.Suddenly, ethnic killings began, mostly in Nakuru and Laikipia. By close of January, 80 people had been killed and hundreds rendered homeless. World attention was focused on Kenya when international media beamed a picture of one Henry Kimani with three arrows lodged in his body and nose dissected by a panga cut. It was only three years after the Rwanda genocide and everybody thought Kenya was sliding into the same path of lunacy.The US government dispatched to the country a special envoy, the Rev Jesse Jackson, to assess the situation and recommend the next course of action. On arrival in Nairobi, he was straightaway driven to Nakuru to console victims of the senseless orgy, among them Mr Kimani who was admitted to the Nakuru Provincial General Hospital. The American embassy requested President Moi to visit with Rev Jackson, but this was declined. Instead, Mr Moi arranged to make an impromptu tour of his own and where only the Presidential Press Service and the international media would be.BLOODSHED THEATREColleague Sammy Wambua, our photographer and I were having breakfast at Nakuru s Midland Hotel after covering Rev Jackson s itinerary when somebody alerted us the President s convoy had just zoomed by on the way to Njoro, the theatre of the bloodshed. We hurriedly cleared our bills and hit the road. We caught up with the President s party at the Njoro/Egerton University turnoff where he had stopped for a roadside address.A seasoned master of spin, President Moi was at his best, blaming the ethnic clashes on the Opposition and civil society. He promised to toboa yote (disclose all) at Naishi Market where he was to address a rally.Unfortunately for the President s handlers, the local media had got wind of his visit and came along. Apparently, the plan was to have only the less pesky international media around and have the presidential press team send a dispatch to the local media houses.At Naishi Market, the President exposed a plot by the Opposition with help of foreign-funded civil society to bring down his government by starting the ethnic clashes and turning around to blame them on his administration. He concluded by giving a long history of his patriotism and why he would be the last to incite Kenyans against one another.A LECTUREOn his way out, he came to where the journalists were and gave us a lecture on the need for patriotism. You people must know that when the country burns you will burn with it, he said.But just as he made to leave happy that he had put us in our place, I shot a question at him: Mr President Sir, there is fear that Kenya is slowly going the Rwanda route. Can you assure us your government will not allow that to happen? All of a sudden, the President went ballistic. The comparison to Rwanda had made him fly into a rage. Who says Kenya is going the Rwanda way? How? How? he barked and hissed like a rattled cobra.Suddenly his elite guards threw a cordon around me and were just about to whisk me away when the President suddenly commanded: Wachana na yeye aulize swali lake (Let him ask his question). Sensing the lurking danger, I said: Mr President, that s what the international media is saying. Somehow that seemed to please him. I have just said it is the foreigners working with the Opposition who are behind all these things. What do the international media know about Kenya to say we re going the Rwanda way? he said.'RWANDA WAY' So you can assure the nation you re in charge and Kenya won t go the Rwanda way, I asked rather bravely considering the circumstances. Oh yes, I am in charge, fully and totally. I can never allow anybody to destroy this country! Thank you for that assurance, Mr President, I replied, slightly relieved.As soon as the President had walked away, two stone-faced members of his security team blocked my way. Young man, never again come here to annoy Mzee, one of them told me, to which I replied: But the President had no problem with me and has answered my questions. The other one interjected: You re not the one to tell us how to do our job. Just try that again and you ll know who we are! ***PostscriptYears after President Moi had retired, I was having a drink with a friend in Parklands when a smiling man with a soldierly gait walked to our table and offered a handshake. I am sure you can t remember me , he said. Well, kindly remind me where we met. Remember the day you put questions to Mzee Moi in Njoro, I am the security man who told you never to do that again. Before I could say anything he volunteered: I am sorry I came down so hard on you that day. I was just doing my job. By the way, we were happy you asked him the questions. We too were annoyed at what was happening (the ethnic violence) but were helpless to do anything about it .And off he was gone.Yet another postscript to the incident: I asked politician Njenga Karume how come the 1998 ethnic killings stopped as abruptly as they had started.This is the story he gave me: When 19 people were killed within a week in Laikipia, the leading opposition party, the Democratic Party (DP), organised a mass burial service at Sipili Market in Laikipia presided over by the Nyeri Catholic Diocese Bishop Nicodemus Kirima.KIHIKA KIMANIThe DP s top leadership also brought along politician Kihika Kimani well known for his caustic tongue to come and publicly announce that since it was DP supporters who were targeted in the ethnic killings, the party would be raising money to purchase firearms to defend them.The bombastic politician also announced that DP leadership had resolved none of them would henceforth take telephone calls from President Moi, and that if any of them was arrested they would mobilise their supporters to camp at the police headquarters until he was freed.Apparently, the powers that be didn t like the sound of that and the madness of ethnic killings stopped as mysteriously as it had come about.[email&#160;protected] email print email print