From the men she has dated, the designer clothes she rocks, never-ending controversial posts on social media, vehicles she drives, luxurious lifestyle, Zari Hassan could very well be the East African version of Kim Kardashian. Here are a few things you may not know about her:She was born and raised in Jinja, UgandaZari Hassan hails from Jinja a town in Uganda, about 79 kilometers from capital city Kampala and sits along the northern shores of Lake Victoria, near the source of river Nile. She was raised in Jinja and even attended Jinja Girls secondary schoolShe has roots in four countriesAccording to her official website, her grandfather from her maternal side is Indian and grandmother Ugandan while her grandfather from the paternal side is Somali and grandmother Burundian.She has a diploma in Cosmetology from London If you thought that Zari was only beauty without brains then you had better think again. Diamond can attest to this as he has many a times claimed she is the smartest lady he has ever met. Zari holds a Diploma certificate in Cosmetology from a London college. No wonder her make-up is always on fleek.She got nominated for an award before Diamond Zari Hassan became known to many because of showbiz as a socialite rather than her music. However many people, don t know that Zari is a very good singer with several singles under her belt that did pretty well for instance Toloba and Better Than Them among others that she released before taking a break in 2014.Diamond s baby mama started her music career way back before even her partner would ever thought of one day that he would be the Bongo Flava star he is now. By the time Diamond made his breakthrough in music back in 2009 with his hit song Kamwambie , Zari had already been nominated for a Channel O award in 2008 for Oliwange in the best East African video category.She was once an actress When she gained entrance into Jinja Girls high school, Zari joined the dance, drama and music groups which saw her crowned best actress for two consecutive years. After years of brilliant stage performances and school concerts, she took a break then moved from Uganda to London to study Cosmetology.She has a sex tape Just like Kim Kardashian who made a sex tape with her Ray J and used it to get fame and money, Zari too made one. It is alleged that she leaked the recorded tape to the media. However, others claimed that it was her ex-husband who did so. Like in Kim s case, no-one really knows what happened. Got feedback on this story? E-mail [email&#160;protected] email print email print Zari is not just a shrewd businesswoman but also a budding musician.