Statistics say that 90 per cent of businesses fail in their first years. Why is this so? Some of these businesses fail because they offer the wrong product to the market. Many fault access to capital. However some business achieve some level of success and then collapse. Why? The answer is simple: Because they cannot run without their founder. If the business is wholly dependent on one person to keep it running, it will inevitably collapse when that person is not there. How do you know your one-man-show business is in danger of floundering? Let s use Wendy, business owner, to illustrate.You can t take a break without closing the shop. Wendy owns a clothes shop. When she went on maternity leave, she closed the shop for two months. While she did not generate any revenue during that time, she still had to pay rent for the shop; that came from her personal resources. There are many people who cannot go on holiday without closing the business. Some of us cannot even take a day. Even when they do take a break they are constantly on the phone. You can operate like this if the intention for the business is simply to generate some additional income for you, but this is not sustainable if you intend to grow and create real wealth.Fear of hiring. Wendy needed to hire a capable assistant to run the shop while she was on leave. However, she was scared of hiring in case she hired someone who would steal her ideas, customers and business contacts and start their own shop. Yes, there are horror stories out there. However, your vision has to be bigger than the risk. This sort of small thinking leads to small results. At the end of the day, Wendy not only lost money from not having somebody at the shop, she lost customers who would have kept coming back to her. All business need people to grow. Hire and empower people.Not managing money. Wendy was scared of staff stealing money, which indicated that she did not have a proper financial management system. She really did not have a good grasp of how much money comes in and how much money goes out. A lack of this knowledge enables and almost encourages theft in a business. She also did not really know how much stock she had, its value, when she needs to replace it, what moves quickly and hence be replaced quickly, proper receipting and invoices from suppliers, etc. If this had been in place she would probably have had more confidence in leaving somebody at the shop. Wendy would not be able to raise money to grow the business without this in place.You don t pay yourself. Wendy s personal life was mixed with the business. She used receipts from customers to fund personal expenses. If a business financial resources are being depleted to fund personal expenditure, it will not grow. Wendy needs to separate herself from the business and decide what to pay herself every month. This would allow her to plan as well as understand the true cost of running her business (which includes her). Many businesses understate their expenses because the owner neglects to include themselves as a cost. They make the business get used to free labour. One day when it is time for them to leave the business or even just take a holiday, they find that they cannot afford the kind of person who can run the business professionally in their absence. If you focus only on survival, you will get survival. We need to put together the resources that enable the business to grow. At some point we need to stop being the doctor and build the hospital. Centonomy runs an entrepreneurship programme that teaches you how to grow your business. For details email Waceke on [email&#160;protected] | Facebook/WacekeNduati| [email&#160;protected] email print email print