Stephanie Kioko is a fourth year law student who runs a jewellery business, Evemaya Designs. 1. What inspired you to make jewellery/accessories? Initially, I drew my inspiration from the desire to have my own personal jewellery collection, and then it subsequently evolved into creating one-off pieces for my clients. Secondly, my friends and family have been the greatest supporters of my work, which inspires me to always to do better. Their validation is always highly appreciated. Thirdly, I watch and read everything that’s fashion related, from Vogue to watching iconic fashion documentaries such as “Scatter my ashes at Bergdorf’s” and “Dior and I”. They keep me updated on the fashion scene in the world.  2. Do you make them all by yourself or do the basic design? And what’s your inspiration behind these designs? I make about 70 per cent of my designs by hands in my bedroom, my mom keeps on teasing me that I should start paying rent for running a business in her house. I recently started working with a great artisan from Kibera. He helps me bring some of my designs to life with brass.  3. What happened to the Evemaya name? How did it start, and why did it end? The Evemaya name was a suggestion from my mum when my sister and I wanted to start a clothing and jewellery business. She just put together our middle names, mine being Eve and my sister’s being Maya. My sister and I ran the business for about three years but decided to pursue different paths as our visions were not aligned. At the moment, I am running a one-man show, which has its challenges, but I wouldn’t trade the experience for anything!  4. Where can we find your stuff? As for now, you can find everything via my Instagram page @evemayadesigns. I am almost done with Law School, so I expect to put in my all in the next couple of months and find stockists around Kenya. This will make it easier for people to access my products.  5. Are you voting in the next election? Why or why not? Voting, oh! I am definitely voting come August 8. It will be my first time to vote. I am very excited about that, and secondly, it’s very critical for people in my age group to do so. The youth are always complaining about leadership in Kenya and are never willing to do anything, if it has to change it has to start with us. It’s the least I can do to participate in my country’s affairs.  