Q. I studied Procurement Management at university. For two-and-a-half years after school, my partners I have been supplying stationery to various businesses in Mombasa. Last month, our main client, who has been on an expansion programme, called for applications for the tender. The tender had clearly stated that entities who have been supplying to the business had an added advantage. Despite having the ability and willingness to match the company’s new demand, we lost the tender to a competitor. There are clear indications that the tendering process was flawed. Can we sue for being short-changed?  While it is disheartening to experience the unexpected loss of a key business client, it is positive that you have acquired other clients over time. Few businesses thrive without the occasional interjection of loss and the discouragement it tows. Many seasoned entrepreneurs assert that some of their worst losses have lent them invaluable lessons upon which they have made crucial improvements to their businesses. The advantage of having been a supplier in the past could inordinately raise the expectations of making a successful bid. It could invite complacency and a sense of entitlement that erodes the diligence that one would otherwise invest whilst making a bid. Such advantage is intended to give the comfort of a head-start and not the assurance of a guarantee. If the client had intended to exclusively award the tender to your company, they could have requested you to supply rather than bid to supply stationery. It is your prerogative to sue the said client. Are you certain that the tendering process was indeed flawed? And would you sue to assuage your pain or benefit your business? The quality of service rendered to a client plays a significant role in determining whether a service provider’s contract would be renewed upon its expiry. In the absence of corruption, the more the client has been content with the service, the less likely they will desire to change a working relationship. How often did you meet with the client to seek feedback on the quality of your services? What value did you deliver besides the pricing of your wares? Could your competition be going an extra mile? Reflect and adjust your approach with your future and existing clientele.  