Two weeks ago when Catherina, our acting headteacher, asked me to take care of the school as she would not be in on opening day, I did not read much into it. It was usual for school heads to take a few days before coming back to, leaving their deputies in charge. It had happened to me before so many times, especially under Bensouda. But when she did not come by the third day, I started having my questions, especially once you remember that she was only acting. For reasons no one knows, I had not been appointed to act as headmaster yet everyone with little knowledge about school would agree that, if given an opportunity, I would do a  better job. But on Thursday evening there was a clear indication that something was cooking. On that day, I arrived at school a little late. I also planned to leave early as I wanted to travel to town to be with Fiolina, who was  pursuing greener pastures at Sharp Shooters Academy. At half past 2pm, a few minutes before I left, a boda boda arrived in school, carrying Catherina. She went straight to her office. What surprised me was that the boda boda guy did not leave immediately, but rather waited under the mango tree. I went and knocked on the HM’s door. “Dre give me a few minutes,” answered Catherine. She called me a few minutes later. She had packed all he personal stuff on a bag that she asked me to help her take them to the motor cycle. As we walked to the boda boda, I asked her what was happening. “Dont worry,” she said. She gave me the keys to the HM’s office. “You will give whoever is sent here,” she said. “I have recommended you but I doubt if they will consider you,” she said, mounted the boda boda and left. That was when it hit me that I was the headmaster of the school. I called Mr Kuya and told him that I was leaving. I left him in charge. My plan was to go to town early and if possible, pass by the education office for further instructions. By the time I reached town, the offices were closed. I went straight to Sharp Shooters Academy and walked to the staffroom. Fiolina was not in and I was told she was in the HM’s office. I walked around the HM’s office to ensure I was seen, then went back to the staffroom. Fiolina came to the staffroom a few minutes later. Mr Maina came in shortly after. He coldly greeted me, then quickly went back to his office. I did not need a calculator to know that he was not too happy that I had come to pick Fiolina. Once the school was closed for the day, I walked home with Fiolina. I insisted on holding her hands romantically as we walked to send a message to all the teachers and Mr Maina in particular! To ensure no other teacher at school knew where she stayed, her house was some distance from school. It was well past 6pm when we arrived. Fiolina gave me a glass of juice. Life in the county headquarters was quite good. I can imagine if we had tried to buy juice back at home. Branton would have cleared it in a day. I was on my third glass of juice when I remembered that I had not looked at my phone. There were about five missed calls. Four from Bensouda. I did not need a calculator to know what was happening. I sent her a “Please Call me”. She called back immediately. “Has that acting headmistress left?” she asked me. I told her I was not in school but had heard that she packed and left. “From who?” she asked. I told her had heard from my sources. “Didn’t I tell you that woman won’t last there, and that I will be back?” “Oh good to hear that,” I said, although I did not mean it. I was not happy that I had once again been by-passed. If Matiang’i and his people had any good plans for Mwisho wa Lami Primary, then they would have appointed me headmaster.“Are you near school?” she asked. “I want you to take charge of things until I report back Monday,” she said and disconnected. Come Friday morning, I took Fiolina to school then went back to the house to take some juice. After this, I went to the education office. I wanted to find out why I could not be considered for the position of HM. I knew no one so I left. On my way out, I saw Bensouda arrive. I used a different route and hoped that she had not seen me. From there I went to town and took lunch at Teacher’s Tavern. Next stop was Sharp Shooters Academy. It was late that afternoon when we boarded the last Msamaria Mwema, arriving at home late in the evening. Word that Bensouda would be returning as HM had spread far. There was more. Someone had started a rumour that I had travelled to the education office to get the position but had been unsuccessful. So as we walked home with Fiolina that evening, eyes of sympathy from the people of Mwisho wa Lami greeted me. We had a generally uneventful weekend. Sunday afternoon, I took Fiolina to the stage to take a Matatu to town. On my way back, I received an SMS from Kuya. “We will be having a meerting tomorrow at 8am sharp. Keep time.” I did not understand why this was the case. I was the deputy and was unaware of any meeting. Anyway, it was not the first time Kuya was being favoured by Bensouda. I arrived at school early Monday morning. By 8.30am, the meeting had not begun and Bensouda had not arrived. It was almost 9am when Kuya sent an SMS to everyone to come to the staffroom for the meeting. Bensouda arrived just as we all sat. All of us except Saphire. “Good to see all of you,” she said. “Although I know many of you do not want to see me back.” She went on. “I have to rush back to the county education office for a meeting,” she said. “Kuya will chair the meeting in my absence. I already briefed him on what to do. “As for you Dre,” she said facing me. “I saw you at the county education offices trying to block my return. I cannot work with a traitor like you.” “That is a lie,” I said. “So what were you doing there?” she asked. I had no answer. “Don’t play with me, I am connected,” she said. “And if there is any other person who does not recognise me as HM, you can look for transfers or resign.” Anyway, just because Kuya was doing my work did not mean that my responsibility allowance was going to him. Let him work but I would still earn the money. The way I know him, they will soon part ways with Bensouda, and I will be waiting to be back in Bensouda’s good books. Watch this space.    