The stage is set for the Nairobi Region Secondary Schools Term Two A Games which get underway at Lenana School Thursday afternoon. The four-day showpiece will see schools from across the county battle for honours in rugby sevens, athletics, under-16 football, handball and netball. At stake will be the various titles and spots to next month's National Term Two A Games to be held in Mombasa. The under-16 football contests will get underway Thursday with the rest of the disciplines set to commence from Friday.The under-16 football competition, now in in its second year, was introduced in the Term Two Games calendar last year. St Anthony's Boys Kitale from Rift Valley Region and Western's Wiyetta Girls won the inaugural national boys' and girls' titles respectively at Kangaru School School, Embu County.Upper Hill will be out to reclaim the rugby sevens and football titles they lost to Laiser Hill and Utithi Boys at last year's Metropolitan (now defunct) Regional Games in Makueni Boys. Makongeni High School are the boys' handball champions with 2015 winners New Jogoo Road Girls, favourites to take back the girls' crown.In Thursday's football matches, Upper Hill open their campaign against Brown Hill in Pool C as they eye a perfect start. Upper Hill, who are also the county champions, will be wary of an upset against their little-known opponents.Upper Hill coach Joseph Makokha has called for maximum focus as his team chases glory. This is a crucial stage and we therefore need to be at our best. There is only one spot to the nationals and we want that to be us, the coach said.Upper Hill lost 1-0 to Utithi Boys at last year's regional finals to miss out on the ticket to the national games.The other Pool C game will see Hospital Hill battle Light Academy. Girls' champions Olympic Mixed are in Pool A and will get their title defence underway against Starehe Girls as Hidden Talent face Kenya High in the other game.Olympic beat Matuu Memorial 3-0 in last year's final and will be looking to pick up from where they left.In rugby sevens, County champions Upper Hill have been drawn against Aquinas, St Mary's School and Our Lady of Fatima. Ofafa, who lost 48-0 to Upper Hill in last year's County final, headline Pool B alongside Jamhuri, Muhuri Muchiri and Makini.Ofafa coach James Kaili is looking to go all the way this year. We have suffered major heartbreaks in the past but I think we have finally come of age and deserve to lift the crown, he said. email print email print