Uasin Gishu politicians perceived to have rebelled against Deputy President William Ruto are basking in glory after registering outright wins in the recent Jubilee Party nominations. The four are Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago, MPs Alfred Keter (Nandi Hills) and Oscar Sudi (Kapseret) and former Cherangany MP Joshua Kutuny. Mr Keter and Mr Sudi have gone on holiday on the coast after successful party primaries, saying the will of the people carried the day. “The outcome of the polls has clearly shown that it is only the people who decide on the leaders they want. "This is a wake-up call to Jubilee that wananchi do not like sycophants but people who talk on pertinent issues affecting them,” Mr Keter told the Nation by phone. The two MPs were categorical that being independent-minded should not be mistaken as being rebels or undermining anybody politically. PEOPLE’S WILL “Our main agenda now is to campaign for President Uhuru Kenyatta’s re-election in the North Rift as we focus on doing the same for Deputy President William Ruto’s 2022 bid,” said Mr Keter. Mr Keter garnered 19,734 votes against Emmanuel Tallam's 5,620 votes. Mr Tallam was a communications director at the deputy president's office Mr Sudi received 15,864 votes to beat his challenger Steve Kewa in Kapseret. Mr Kewa was second with 8,831 votes. “At least the results reflected the will of the people. The voters spoke loudly,” said Mr Sudi. Mr Sudi, Mr Keter and Governor Jackson Mandago had claimed in the run-up to the party primaries that there was a plot to rig them out in the party primaries. Governor Mandago and the two MPs had openly hit out at officials at the deputy president’s office who, they claimed, had come up with a list of preferred candidates. GRAB LAND According to Mr Mandago, the individuals were plotting to have one of their own control the administration of their targeted areas by influencing nomination results. “The operatives want to grab land and plunder public resources in the region [and] thus the rush to impose their cronies on the people. "I have respected and campaigned for the party for the last four years, but I wonder why some people are plotting to have me removed. It is only the voters to decide who will be their leaders,” said Mr Mandago then. The claims prompted President Uhuru Kenyatta to intervene by defending Mr Ruto against the accusations, saying neither of them had preferred candidates. “We have said that we don’t have any preferred candidates. We want the choice of the people to prevail. We will work with whoever the people have decided to be their leaders,” President Kenyatta said last week when the duo addressed the nation over the Jubilee Party primaries. BEING TARGETED Mr Mandago eventually emerged the winner after garnering 126,681 votes against his closest opponent Zedekiah "Buzeki" Bundotich, who received 82,869 votes. The governor and the two MPs had claimed that Mr Kutuny was also targeted in the scheme. However, Mr Kutuny also won the party’s ticket after garnering 15,385 votes against 2012 Boston marathon champion Wesley Korir, who got 8,378 votes. “This victory is a clear indication that the electorate still has confidence in what I did for them during my tenure as MP. I call upon my colleague to support me in my journey,” said Mr Kutuny.   Nominations take place amid complaints of missing names, delays in delivery of ballot materials in Nakuru.