Upsets marked the twilight of the Regional Secondary Schools Term Two A Games across the country on Saturday.In Nairobi Region, Muhuri Muchiri clinched the rugby sevens title after a 31-12 win against Nairobi School at Lenana School. It was a maiden title for Muhuri Muchiri, who finished fourth last year.Muhuri Muchiri had eliminated county champions Upper Hill 28-5 in the semi-finals as Nairobi School beat last year s finalists Ofafa Jericho in the other last-four encounter.The victorious coach, Kikechi Kombo, was happy with the result and is looking forward to repeat performance in the nationals. It was a brilliant performance from the charges, Kombo told Sunday Nation Sport. We are eager to make a mark in the nationals and other teams should be wary of us. The under-16 football, handball and netball finals will be played Sunday as the games come to an end.St Peter s Mumias, the East Africa rugby sevens champions and boys regional handball winners, were dethroned as the Western Region games ended in Busia County. Chavakali High walloped Bungoma High 41-7 in the final to be the new regional rugby sevens cocks, having eliminated St Peter s 17-5 in the semis. This has been a humbling experience, said Chavakali captain Idriss Shariff. We have learnt valuable lessons and, as we go back to prepare for the next stage, we hope to replicate the result in the nationals. In boys handball, East Africa and Kenya champions St Luke s Kimilili were disqualified for fielding an over-age player against Kolanya. Kimilili were leading 14-10.In the girls category, national champions Moi Girls Kamusinga won the title after beating Mukumu 28-12. Kakamega High and Chebukaka won the under-16 boys and girls football titles, respectively.In Coast Region, Kaya Tiwi Mixed Secondary struck a double with the netball and rugby sevens titles. They beat Mwakitawa Secondary 46-32 in a hard-fought netball final and secured the sevens rugby National Games berth after a 14-0 victory over Mghallu Secondary. Majenjeni Secondary shocked defending champions Shimba Hills 26-15 in the girls handball.In Eastern Region, Makueni County secured the overall title as the games ended at Meru School. Machakos County came second.Reports by Brian Yonga, Gaitano Pesa, Agnes Aboo and Philip Onyango email print email print