A number dangerous terrorists have sneaked into the country from Somalia, police have warned. Inspector-General of police Joseph Boinnet said they are responsible for two recent attacks in Mandera County in which five people, including a chief were killed. “Though many terror plots have been thwarted, there have been two unfortunate incidents in Mandera county in which Al-Shabaab elements sneaked in and attacked innocent Kenyans. Security agents remain vigilant and are on hunt for the terrorists who attempt to sneak into our country,” he said in a statement. It identifies Abdrizak Maalim Aweys as one of the suspects being hunted by police over links to Somalia-based Al-Shabaab terrorist organisation. Police say he was involved in the latest deadly attacks. COPYCAT ATTACKS The four were killed at a quarry in Qalanqalesa, Elwak on May 12 while Omar Jillow location chief was attacked at his home three days later. The police alert coming barely 24 hours after 22 people were killed and over 50 others injured in a terror explosion in Machester, England, Mr Boinnet warned local Al-shabaab cells may stage “copycat” attacks. He said: “There is a risk of local operatives of attempting to stage copycat attacks. In this respect we have heightened vigilance on our part, and appeal to the public to be watchful for any suspicious activity.” The statement was signed for the IG by spokesman George Kinoti. The police chief asked managers at private premises to heighten security measures. Mr Boinnet attributed resurgence of the attacks in Northern Kenya to increased pressure on Al-Shabaab in Somalia by Kenya Defence Forces (KDF) troops. PLANTING BOMBS “Al-Shabaab is now under serious pressure in Somalia and has split into small groups, some of whom are heading towards our border with the intention of staging attacks,” he added. Those already in the country have been planting bombs on roads frequently patrolled by security agents. Al-Shabaab presence has been reported in Mandera East, Lafey, Hulugho, Dif, Kolbio and Kutulo. The police also want the public to “be fully conscious of their surrounding especially in public service vehicles, in places of worship, restaurants and bus and railway termini.” Any suspicious activities should be reported to the nearest police station or administrative office as well as through toll free telephone line 999, 911 and 912. YOUTH INITIATIVE The war against terrorism is being fought on different platforms by the government and the civil society. On Monday an initiative to include the youth in the fight against terrorism was launched in Nairobi. They are expected to come up with short videos with anti-terrorism messages. The top three videos in the May 22-June 15 competition will be awarded. The best video will be awarded Sh500,000, the second prize is Sh300,000 and the third Sh100,000. Competition is open between May 22 and June 15, while the winners will be announced on July 8. The initiative dubbed “Lenga Ugaidi na Talanta” targets the youth because they are easily lured by terrorists. Details of the initiative are posted on www.lengaugaidi.co.ke.  