 Utamu wa Yesu hit maker Rose Muhando is in trouble. So much so that she is considering abandoning her motherland Tanzania for Kenya. She wants to move here for good in search of peace and happiness .Over the last three years, Muhando has been hitting the headlines for the wrong reasons, with all kinds of controversies, ranging from drug abuse, abortion and sexual harassment to shady business deals and death threats among others, rather than for her music that catapulted her to fame in 2003.Speaking to Nation.co.ke on Thursday , the once energetic performer, who started her musical career that has now crumbled as a choir teacher, confirmed that she is making the big move to Kenya. In a shaky voice devoid of the energy and enthusiasm that punctuate most of her songs like Nibebe and Utamu wa Yesu , Muhando said she has been left with no choice but to move to Kenya for good in an effort to escape her problems, especially the death threats. Kweli nahamia Kenya kabisa. Nimechoka kuishi maisha ya mashaka, kutishiwa maisha. Sina raha kabisa, sina amani hata mbingu zinajua (Yes, it is true that I am relocating to Kenya for good. I am tired of living a life full of doubt and worry, full of death threats. I am so unhappy and I do not have peace, even the heavens know that.)..., she said before disconnecting the call and switching off her phone.Tanzania s popular gospel musician Rose Muhando belting out a tune in her heyday. PHOTO | FILEDEATH THREATSTanzanian newspaper Ijumaa Wikienda interviewed her on Monday and quotes her as having said she had recently received death threats from a bishop who she said has been sexually harassing her and wants her to give in to his sex demands or he would take her out.In the interview, Muhando claims the bishop wants sexual favours as repayment for helping her out financially with her music career.The musician claims that her efforts to report the bishop to security authorities have been futile because the man of the cloth is well connected politically, besides being wealthy. It couldn t be immediately confirmed if this is the same bishop who in April was reported to be looking to take her to rehab when she disappeared from her Ipagala residence in Dodoma.The singer recently relocated from Dar es Salaam to her home town of Dodoma.Time and again, Muhando has denied claims that she is abusing drugs, something that many speculate has led to the decline of her once flourishing music career. Muhando lays the blame for her troubles squarely on the bishop s shoulders. She said as much in her interview with Ijumaa Wikienda. Kwa kuwa anafahamiana na polisi, wakuu wa vituo vya polisi na viongozi wa dini, inakuwa rahisi kunisingizia mambo mengi machafu (The policemen and religious leaders are his close allies, so nothing can be done against him. It is easy for him to take my name through the mud and say scandalous things too).'I DO NOT ABUSE DRUGS'She also vehemently denied claims that she abuses drugs:"Situmii madawa ya kulevya na sitatumia, kama aliona ndiyo skendo itakayonimaliza, najua atashindwa, alitaka niwe mtu wake wa ngono na wa kumtajirisha nikataa. Nasikitika anavyozungumza kwa sababu anaiumiza familia yangu kisaikolojia. Ila Mungu yupo na mbingu zitafunguka. (I am not using drugs and will never use them. If the bishop thought that would be the scandal that would bring me down, then I know he is in for a rude shock. He wanted to use me for sex and make money from my music but I refused. I am saddened by the things he said about me because it touches on my family, which has done nothing wrong. But I know God is with me and heavens will open up), the mother of three added.Rose Muhando (centre), L-Jay Maasai and Janet collaborated in the song "Olomaiyana". PHOTO| COURTESYMuhando allegedly sold her two cars to finance the expensive habit of rumoured drug and substance abuse. She, however, insisted that the bishop grabbed the cars from her to orchestrate her claimed drug abuse.SHADY BUSINESS DEALS?Furthermore, Tanzanian blogs have also been abuzz with claims that Muhando has resorted to engaging in shady business deals, including asking for advance payment for gigs and then not showing up, allegations she has denied vehemently, arguing if that is the case she should be facing several court cases. Kama kweli natapeli mbona hawajawahi kunifikisha mahakamani na nikahukumiwa kama sio kunichafua? Ina maana kesi zote wahusika hunisamehe au hazifikishwi mahakamani?" (If at all I am conning promoters then why is it that I am not in court or does it mean they let me go?)Muhando, who converted from Islam, has insisted that all her miseries have been caused by the said bishop, whose name she has refused to divulge for fear that he would immediately end her life. The 2008 Kenya Groove Awards winner has four albums to date, with hits such as "Facebook", "Jipange Sawasawa", "Nibebe", "Mteule Uwe Macho" and "Utamu wa Yesu", among others. If her move to Kenya materialises, it remains to be seen if her career will pick up again, as she plans to keep creating music.Who knows, another Groove Award might just be in the offing. Got feedback on this story? E-mail [email&#160;protected] email print email print Gospel singer is considering abandoning her Tanzania motherland for Kenya.