As the pay row at City Hall rages, workers with patients being treated at hospitals are the most affected, the Nation.co.ke has learnt. Some county staff, who did not want to be named, on Wednesday recounted their harrowing ordeals, including that they could not use their National Hospital Insurance Fund (NHIF) cards because City Hall had not remitted money to the insurer. On Wednesday, Nairobi County services were paralysed as the workers protested their delayed April salaries due to an impasse between the Central Bank and the Revenue Authority (KRA) on one side and the county government on the other. According to one of the workers, his spouse has been detained at Nairobi West Hospital because he could not use his NHIF card to pay the bills. A hospital form from Nairobi West Hospital seen by the Nation shows that the worker has been informed in the membership section that the current contribution is in arrears and he is not covered for the services offered. “Current contributions in arrears. This member is not covered for the services (Apr NOT PAID),” read the form. 13,000 WORKERS A former branch secretary for the Kenya County Workers Union, Edward Peter Nyerere, said that all workers whose kin were admitted to hospital in May are detained at the facilities because their NHIF cards were unusable. Mr Nyerere said he could not provide a specific number but said that with a workforce of over 13,000, many of the city's employees are bound to be affected. Departments whose services were paralysed on Wednesday included parking, markets, licences, City Mortuary, garbage collectors and the inspectorate. Workers' union Nairobi branch chairman Bernard Inyangala said the dispute between the county the KRA did not involve them and all they want is their pay. Workers did not get their April salaries following the standoff between the KRA and City Hall after the Central Bank transferred money to the taxman from the county's account that officials said was meant to pay workers. ADVANCE LOAN The devolved unit spends about Sh1.3 billion a month to pay its workers. The county received an advance of Sh1.021 billion from the Treasury on Tuesday, with county secretary Robert Ayisi saying workers had been paid and that their strike was illegal. According to Dr Ayisi, workers with accounts at Cooperative Bank and Nacico will receive their salaries today as the county had already deposited Sh1 billion. “Those in other banks will receive there's tomorrow because of clearance procedures. Everybody should go back to work, there is no cause for alarm and unnecessary picketing," said Dr Ayisi.   Workers picket outside Nairobi City County headquarters to demand April pay.