Former Gatanga MP Peter Kenneth has declared that he will run for Nairobi governorship as an independent after losing Jubilee ticket race to Mike Sonko. Mr Kenneth on Friday said he was setting out to reclaim the city county from lack of leadership and poor management. The former Planning assistant minister, who said he would unveil his running mate next week, will now face off with Dr Kidero of Orange Democratic Movement, Mr Sonko (Jubilee) and Mr Miguna Miguna (independent). TRAFFIC "Kidero has been a total failure and Sonko too has failed in his oversight roles,” he said at PK Hub in Westlands. He said his priority will be to take Nairobi to "greater heights" by easing traffic and devolving services. “I will devolve all functions such as health and garbage collection to constituencies for effective delivery,” he said. Traffic jams, he said, will be a thing of the past within 18 months should he be elected governor. “I will build underpasses and overpasses at the roundabouts to ease traffic jam," he said. GARBAGE Mr Kenneth also pledged to fight cartels that have been hatching and executing corruption schemes at City Hall, the county headquarters. He termed the recently concluded Jubilee nominations as a “shame” that was full of irregularities. The high number of appeals that emanated from the Jubilee nominations, he said, is an indication that the process was not free and fair. He dismissed the candidature of Mr Sonko, saying he has no previous managerial experience to run a city like Nairobi. "You can't say you will do the politics while another person will be the manager," he said in reference to Mr Polycarp Igathe, Mr Sonko’s running mate. "Nairobi cannot survive with a figure head governor." RUTO He added: “I'm not worried by the Deputy President supporting my competitor Sonko...it will be upon Nairobians to decide." He revealed his views on Sonko-Igathe ticket: "I feel for Igathe… he is a good young man but will be overrun within two weeks by the governor if Sonko wins". The Constitution, he said, is clear that governor is the CEO of a county and not the deputy. The deputy governor, he said, is only assigned duties by the governor and therefore Nairobians cannot be told that the governor will do politics as his deputy manages the city. He said his candidature will not split Jubilee votes and give Dr Kidero a clear win in August, saying he is also capable of getting votes across all political divide.   