Opposition leader Raila Odinga has accused former Devolution Cabinet Secretary Ann Waiguru of refusing to respond to questions regarding her lifestyle. Mr Odinga, in a counter-suit filed in court, maintains that Ms Waiguru has refused to answer or provide insufficient responses to his questions regarding her lifestyle. The latest suit is set to pile more pressure on Ms Waiguru, who is currently the subject of a stormy debate in the National Assembly, over a report by the Public Accounts Committee (PAC) which has recommended an investigation into her activities while at the Devolution Ministry as well as a lifestyle audit on her person. MPs debating the report on Wednesday largely blamed Ms Waiguru for the National Youth Service (NYS) scandal. Tongaren MP Eseli Simiyu said Ms Waiguru could not escape blame because there was a Cabinet decision that gave Cabinet secretaries overall power concerning procurement in their ministries. CABINET DECISIONThe committee said in its report that it did not get hold of the Cabinet decision despite its immense powers to get evidence. When the report was published, Ms Waiguru said its net effect was to vindicate her assertions that she was not part of the scam. In his suit lodged by his lawyer Paul Mwangi, Mr Odinga wants the court to throw out a libel suit Ms Waiguru lodged against him over the scandal two years ago. He argues that Ms Waiguru’s failure to answer queries on her lifestyle will deny him a fair trial. “Failure to make such discovery would deny the applicant a fair trial and hence the plaint should be struck out,” Mr Odinga says in his suit papers. RESPOND TO QUERRIES He argues that Ms Waiguru has failed to comply with the court’s orders to respond to queries he (Odinga) had sought regarding her lifestyle on February 15 this year. He adds that on April 25, Ms Waiguru served insufficient answers and refused to answer other questions outright. “The respondent has rejected and/or refused to make necessary discovery facts as per court orders,” says the opposition presidential candidate. In his February 15 counter-suit, Mr Odinga wanted Ms Waiguru to disclose the basic salary she earned while serving in the Kibaki and Kenyatta governments between 2006 and November 2015 when she resigned over the NYS storm. TECHNICAL ADVISORThe information was to cover Ms Waiguru’s stint as the Director of the much-maligned Integrated Financial Management Information System (Ifmis), the Head of the Economic Stimulus Programme, the head of governance at Treasury and as technical advisor to the government. Mr Odinga also wanted Ms Waiguru to disclose whether she acquired any investments in real estate during the period and whether or not she traded in any shares at the Nairobi Stock Exchange. READ: MPs blame Waiguru for NYS scandal She should specify the value of the shares, if any, and the companies through which the shares were held, he added. He also wanted Ms Waiguru to disclose her bank accounts and the amount of money held in each account and the banks the accounts were held in. FOREIGN ACCOUNTS Ms Waiguru was to further disclose whether she has any foreign accounts and if so, in which countries and the amount of money in each of them. He also wanted her to state her average personal expenditure every month and whether she has any dependants she is taking care of; whether she has parents, children, spouse or other relations and how much she spends on them on average every month. Ms Waiguru in her response declined to respond to the queries, saying they had nothing to do with the case she had lodged against Mr Odinga. She also denied knowledge of one Maria Blessing Nyambura Ng’ang’a, one of the beneficiaries of the NYS billions. READ: Waiguru: Opposition out to scuttle my governor dream Mr Odinga had sought to know Ms Waiguru’s association with one of the directors of a company said to have benefitted from the NYS billions. THREE DIRECTORS“During your tenure as the Cabinet Secretary Ministry of Devolution, did you know a person by the name Maria Blessing Nyambura Ng’ang’a? What was the nature of your knowledge and interaction with the said person? Was the said person known or associated to any of your aides?” read Mr Odinga’s affidavit. Ms Ng’ang’a has previously been listed as one of the three directors of a company that pocketed Sh40 million for supplying powdered milk to the para-military institution at the height of the scandal. The firm, Bora Global Ltd was among several private companies listed in a letter from the Central Bank of Kenya to the Devolution Ministry questioning the payments of hundreds of millions. DEFENDED HERSELF Bora Global Ltd was registered on October 31, 2013, with Ms Ng’ang’a, Wilson Waihenya Ngima and Julius Muvea Muinde listed as directors. By demanding that Ms Waiguru discloses her knowledge of or association with Ms Ng’ang’a, Mr Odinga sought to establish the former CS’s direct hand in the scandal. Ms Waiguru has consistently defended herself against claims of having a direct role in the scandal and to date, there has been no evidence directly linking her to the NYS scandal. Over time, Ms Waiguru has been able to shake off the scandal and emerge as a frontrunner in the race for the Kirinyaga gubernatorial seat.   ODM leader wants former CS to explain her links to a beneficiary of the NYS scandal.