The Public Service is likely to face a crisis with 35 per cent of staff set to leave the service in the next five years. A report released on Tuesday by Public Service and Gender Cabinet Secretary Sicily Kariuki said the most affected staff are in senior management levels and technical cadres with critical skills. The report, dubbed Human Resource Planning and Succession Strategy for Public Service, indicates that 35 per cent of employees are in the age bracket of 51-60 years while 52 per cent are above 46 years. “A majority of employees in management positions (Job Group P and above) are over 46 years,” states the report which indicates that only 19 per cent of civil servants are aged between 19-35 years. TEACHING SERVICE Another 13.9 per cent are aged 36-40 years, 14 per cent are aged 41-45 years, 16.9 per cent 46-50 years, 51-55 years take 17 per cent, 56-60 years are 17.3 per cent while 61 and above years are 0.57 per cent. Currently, the Public Service staff, excluding state agencies and teaching service, stand at 322,398. “The challenge of an ageing work-force has partly been addressed through retention in service beyond the mandatory retirement age to provide more time to mentor successors,” states the report. Speaking during the event, Ms Kariuki said an efficient, motivated and well trained Public Service is a prerequisite for attainment of Vision 2030 and critical in supporting government to transform the sector. HUMAN RESOURCE PLANNING “The human resource planning succession management strategy provides a framework to address the challenges which have constrained efforts to deliver service at optimal levels,” she said. According to the report, most ministries, departments, agencies and counties do not maintain comprehensive skills inventories that would adequately inform the current human resource status. “This not only makes it difficult to identify skills and competence gaps but also developing appropriate programmes to address the gaps,” adds the report. It also notes that the service has been experiencing gaps in performance occasioned by vacancies in established positions which have been arising out of lack of requisite qualifications, non-declaration of vacant posts, delays in filling posts and ongoing controlled recruitment. “Gaps in staffing as a contributor to succession management challenges may also be attributed to a number of factors,” adds the report. It also points out that lack of requisite qualifications among staff as stipulated in their respective schemes of service has been another inhibitor in effective career management, leading to non-advancement of staff and stagnation.  