Cynthia Nyamai is the director of CN Communications, PR expert and former TV anchor. How did your boss react when you approached him to append his signature to your resignation letter? My boss was surprised because I had just won the Diageo Business Award. He kept my letter and asked me to think and rethink my decision. A month later, I went back and told him I was sure I needed to quit. My former employer has been very supportive; you cannot run a PR firm without good media relations, which they have given me.  If you turned 19 again, what would you want to do? Are there missteps you would want to correct ? I would not change a thing. As you get older you stop being too hard on yourself and realise you cannot focus on mistakes but experiences gathered along the way. Every decision gives you the opportunity to take credit for creating your own life.  You were central to the team that delivered an election victory to Nigeria’s President Muhamadu Buhari. Has working with high-profile teams influenced your work ethics? Proverbs 18:16 says a man’s gift maketh room for him and bringeth him before great men. Working with high-profile people is humbling. You quickly realise that behind every successful person lies hard work and an extra mile taken, something most people are unwilling to do. Working at high levels also means you are always in the spotlight, calling for discreetness and a responsible private life.  Are there sacrifices and risks you regret you should not have taken for your business? I thrive on risks, but I only take calculated risks. My decision early on to expand my business to various countries impeded the company’s overall growth. This expansion could have waited. I drew invaluable lessons from that experience.  You place much premium on the role of mentors in an individual’s career growth. Would you have fared differently had you not met your role models? Running a new business is almost a nightmare. There is loneliness, constant pressure, and weeks of sleepless nights, all which can lead to depression. You cannot talk about it because you are supposed to be the pillar of strength and hope to your team. Jessica Bruder, author of Nomadland, calls it the ‘Psychological Price of Entrepreneurship’, which most founders pay secretly. Having someone who practically guides you and shares your worries, and placating your fears with their years of experience keeps you reassured of success. Businesses trust start-ups that are recommended by their friends. My success is owed to my mentors who include Tabitha Karanja of Keroche, James Mwangi of Equity Bank and Naushad Merali, the founder of KenCell, and my parents. If I did not have an ear for these people, my business would probably have folded by now.  Early in your career, you volunteered before you got hired. Do you advocate volunteer work and unpaid internship? A practical work background carries a major significance when attempting to enter the job market. You need to get your foot in the door so you can get your first job. The world is competitive and before you get that extra skill that you can bring to the table, your options are limited. Working as an intern or volunteer are, arguably, the most advantageous plans of action; they equip you with valuable experience, which could tilt the scales in your favour while job-hunting. Whether paid or not, internship comes in handy.  Some career people are unwilling to step out to start their own businesses. What gave you the courage? And, would you advise someone to resign to start a business? I love taking risks and once it gets comfortable I get hungry for a bigger challenge. Entrepreneurship, however, is not for everyone. The most important thing is to understand your purpose. If you have a strong purpose in life, you are never afraid. Your passion will drive you wherever you want to be.  What do you consider your best career achievement? If you could work again in the media, what would you focus on? There are many but when I received a mail about  becoming a champion for the Graca Machel Trust, I was touched that my efforts are widely recognised. This also bestowed on me the chance to grow other women. My pact with God as I started my career was to directly impact on one million people. Changing the lives of other people is therefore my measure of career achievements.  How do you let your hair down? I am a workaholic. Most of my friends think that I am dull. I am, however, still learning to strike the vital balance between work and play. I started golfing in 2015. My trainer Deo shoos me out of the office to play, and he never gives up on me.  Movies or books? I love the series Power, Pray and Prey Empire. Queen of Katwe and War Room, all which I have watched countless times. My favourite book is Think and Grow Rich, a personal development and self-improvement book written in 1937 by Napoleon Hill. -Interview by James Kahongeh  