A bodyguard involved in a road crash with former President Mwai Kibaki has alleged in a court case that he was mistreated and forced out of the Kenya Police Service despite suffering life-threatening injuries. Corporal David Wambugu was then-Opposition presidential candidate Kibaki’s protector at the time of the December 3, 2002 accident at the Machakos turn-off on the Nairobi-Mombasa highway. They and two other people were on their way back to Nairobi in a Range Rover KAH 016G from campaign rallies in the lower eastern region. The frail-looking Mr Wambugu, 45, has since been in and out of hospitals for injuries in the head, legs and back. SETTLE MEDICAL BILLS Then a General Service Unit (GSU) officer stationed at the Kilimani Police Station in Nairobi, he had been a guard of Mr Kibaki since 1997. According to documents filed at the Milimani Industrial Court through RA Onchuru Advocates, Mr Wambugu claims that the retired President had volunteered to settle his medical bills due to the close relationship and trust they had. Both are from neighbouring villages in Othaya Sub-County. Mr Wambugu says then-Nairobi Provincial Police Officer (PPO) Zachary King’ori Mwangi forced him to retire for “nagging” the then-Head of State with hospital bills. EXTORTING MONEY He was also accused of extorting money from State House. Mr Mwangi is now a senior assistant inspector-general of police. “On January 20, 2005 around 16:00 Hours, the then-OCS Kilimani Police Station and Chief Inspector Samuel Otongo and two other police officers came to my residence at Highridge and ordered me to go to the station to see Mr Mwangi,” states Mr Wambugu in his petition. The former policeman adds that he was taken to Mr Mwangi’s office and forced to sign an early retirement letter, failing which which “I would not be safe as far as my life is concerned”. STATE HOUSE The last hospital bill to be paid was Sh62,000, due to Nairobi Hospital, in 2004. The last bill that he submitted to State House was for Sh116,720. Mr Wambugu recounted: “Mr Mwangi summoned me to office and I moved there fast, on crutches and in dire pain, thinking good news awaited. He was very harsh to me, saying I was disturbing the President. He also said I was not involved in the said accident.” He has named the National Police Service, Mr Mwangi, the National Police Service Commission and the Attorney-General as respondents in the case. SERVICES TERMINATED The father of four also claims that after his retirement, reports emerged that his services had been terminated because he had lost a gun in suspicious circumstances, a claim he denies. He resorted to being a night guard at a residence in Nairobi, earning Sh7,000 a month, but quit when his health deteriorated. He was forced to sell his property, including land and livestock, to foot his medical bills. The case was to come up for hearing on March 26 but did not, because the respondents had not filed their responses and it was not on the Milimani Law Courts case list. It was adjourned to July 27. Suspecting interference with the case, Mr Mwangi wrote to Chief Justice David Maraga, seeking his intervention.   On a chilly Tuesday evening in December 2002, a nation was convulsed in the shocking news that the man tipped to win the presidency in coming weeks had just been in a car crash