Of course I was in no way ready for the end of such a gloried franchise as this, hence, I watched this movie just the other day with the support of a comfort toy and food. Ok, it may not have been that dramatic, but saying goodbye to Hugh Jackman as Wolverine needed it. While I realise that there are other parallel universes in the Marvel one that may or may not kill him, may or may not have the classic man as him, in the one they have chosen to adapt the movies to, I don’t see him coming back. This isn’t a spoiler alert – everyone knew this was Hugh Jackman’s (and Patrick Stewart’s) last X-Men movie, and we were heartbroken. But let me start from the beginning – or rather, the end. The movie opens with Hugh Jackman, as Wolverine, drunk (surprise!) and fighting off faceless offenders, with a little less panache and speed than we’re used to. Something is clearly wrong with the Wolverine, and it will be revealed what in due time. SPOILERS BEGIN Here is where the spoilers begin… Wolverine is taking care of Caliban, a mutant who can find other mutants, and Professor X, who, after a cataclysmic event brought on by his powers of the mind, must now be kept in solitary and pumped full of pills now that his mind is a ‘weapon of mass destruction.’ All Wolverine wants to do is get away – and, as it turns out, die in peace, but nothing ever really goes according to the antihero’s plan, does it? No mutants have been born in years, so once Professor actually finds one, it’s a race to get the mutant to a safe place before the powers that be (the guy from Narcos, Boyd Holbrook, who plays a sinister cyborg) get to her first. Watching Wolverine fight his last fights is heart-breaking, to say in the least, even though they have set it up for the following movies to happen. It was a painful, gritty goodbye to probably the best-loved X-Man. The gore, especially from the child, is startling to begin with, but necessary. One gets to the end of the movie hoping that they’ll find a way to bring Hugh back, but knows that they shouldn’t.  