The Jubilee Party has warned that the opposition coalition’s threat to boycott the August elections could plunge the country into turmoil. Jubilee Secretary-General Raphael Tuju on Tuesday said utterances by Nasa flag-bearer Raila Odinga and his running mate Kalonzo Musyoka should not be taken lightly. APPEAL Speaking at the party’s headquarters in Nairobi, Mr Tuju said such threats amount to incitement. “That a former prime minister and a former vice-president are demonstrating flagrant disregard for the rule of law, hinting at mass action, is irresponsible and dangerous, and seriously undermines public and investor confidence in our country,” he said, referring to Mr Odinga and Mr Musyoka respectively. During a public rally in Nakuru on Sunday, the two had reiterated that Nasa would keep off the polls should the Court of Appeal reverse the High Court decision that presidential results announced at the constituency level are final. RESPECT The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) filed the appeal. Mr Tuju said Jubilee would respect the decision of the appellate court even if it upholds the lower court’s decision. Separately, Jubilee senators and MPs accused Mr Odinga of cultivating a climate of violence by intimidating independent institutions ahead of the polls. The leaders warned that threats by the National Super Alliance (Nasa) leader were an “uncivilised and illegal" attack on the rule of law. “Mr Odinga has bewitched Nasa and misled them into embracing his default mode of engagement, which is inherently sinister and dangerous,” said the leaders, who included Senate Majority Leader Kithure Kindiki and his deputy Kipchumba Murkomen. THE LAW Others who spoke at a news conference at Parliament were Kericho Senator Aaron Cheruiyot, Machakos Town MP Victor Munyaka, nominated MP Johnson Sakaja and Roysambu’s Waihenya Ndirangu. On Sunday, the opposition coalition urged the IEBC to withdraw an application it has filed in the Court of Appeal. Mr Odinga accused the IEBC of advancing the interests of the ruling party and warned that the Nasa leadership would not accept any decision that overturns the High Court verdict. The Jubilee lawmakers reminded the Nasa leader that the IEBC is the custodian of electoral integrity and that the Judiciary is the gatekeeper of the rule of law, which they said are the foundation of justice. “Every bit of negativity, hostility, suspicion, hatred and division is an asset for Nasa’s dark and evil campaign,” Mr Kindiki said. 'CRY BABY' “Destruction, violence and anarchy are the pillars of their electoral strategy.” The leaders told Nasa to accept the fact that the authority to interpret the law lies with the Judiciary and supported the IEBC decision to file the appeal to clarify the grey areas in the High Court judgement. Mr Murkomen accused Mr Odinga of behaving like a crybaby and urged him to be man enough and prepare for the presidential contest. “Internal squabbles of Nasa are being directed to the wrong institutions,” he said, while warning Nasa that those attempts will be resisted. “These squabbles have become a liability to the IEBC and Judiciary,” 'THREAT' Mr Sakaja said Mr Odinga’s attacks on independent institutions are a threat to the rule of law. “If we discard the rule of law in the way being suggested by the Nasa leadership we shall have nothing to hold onto,” he said. Mr Kindiki laughed off assertions by Nasa leaders that they will boycott the elections if the Court of Appeal rules in favour of the IEBC. “The notion that there will be no elections if Nasa is not participating is laughable. There are about 18 candidates in the presidential race and if one of them pulls out the rest will participate,” he said. Meanwhile, Jubilee has dismissed a report by the Kenya National Commission on Human Rights that criticised the manner in which party primaries were held. Mr Tuju described the report as “hogwash” and “statistically insignificant”.  