Anti-corruption detectives on Thursday raided the home of National Land Commission chairman Muhammad Swazuri. Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission spokesman Yasin Aila said the raid was prompted by suspected graft in compensating individuals and institutions affected by the standard gauge railway project. Also raided are the homes of vice-chairman Abigael Mbagaya Mukolwe and chief executive officer Tom Aziz Changingi. The homes of several top managers were also raided. Other reports indicated that the home of Valuation and Taxation Director Salome Munubi, Director of Finance Francis Mugo and Manager Mary Ngundo were also raided by the officials. It is alleged that over Sh 2 billion was irregularly paid between November and December. The queries include “compensation to individuals for public land, double compensation, compensation to people who did not own land acquired for SGR project, excessive compensation as a result of over valuation, compensation in regard to Kenya Railway Reserve land,” according to the EACC. DOCUMENTS SEIZED The officials are also being investigated for abuse of office. “So far important documents helpful to the investigations have been identified and recovered,” said Mr Aila. He added: “Upon completion of the investigation EACC will forward a report and the inquiry file to the Director of Public Prosecutions with appropriate recommendations.” The NLC is also being investigated by the National Assembly Lands Committee because of the large payments made in December last year. The commission's secretariat was accused of withholding information on the matter. Among the plots of land were at least five parcels in Embakasi valued at a combined Sh215 million. Former journalist Mugo Njeru filed a complaint claiming Mr Swazuri asked him for a bribe to facilitate compensation for his prime land. Mr Njeru and his wife Edith Wairimu accused Mr Swazuri of demanding a bribe of Sh1.2 million to be compensated for their land, which the government acquired for the standard gauge railway project. Additional reporting by Stella Cherono.   The committee has denied receiving orders to stop the investigation.