President Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto have thrown their weight behind Jubilee candidate in the Nairobi governor race Mike Sonko. The Jubilee leaders said Mr Sonko was the right man for the job as he understood the problems bedevilling the city. For a man who had earlier accused “people close to the seat of power” of hatching a plan to lock him out of the Jubilee nominations, the endorsement came as a boost for the flamboyant politician. Mr Sonko has chosen Vivo Energy boss Polycarp Igathe as his running mate. ELECT SONKO “We asked you to go for nominations, and Jubilee will respect your wish. You voted a diverse team and showed us that you were not tribal. Please, elect this young, diverse team so we can work with them,” President Kenyatta said during a stopover at Donholm. READ: Sonko: I'll adopt Kibaki style to run city Deputy President Ruto was more forthright: “Please, let us elect a governor who understands the problems of Nairobi. Not one who reads them on the internet or the newspaper.” The Jubilee leaders also endorsed Nairobi Johnson Sakaja (Senate), Rachel Shebesh (Woman Rep) and musician Charles Kanyi Njagua (Starehe). At the same time, the IEBC cleared Jubilee nominee for Taita-Taveta Woman Representative Joyce Lay to defend her seat. FORMER TEACHER Ms Lay will battle it out with former teacher Jones Mwaruma (ODM), former National Irrigation Board director Anna Kina (Kanu), Dr Harold Mwadali (Thirdway Alliance), Elijah Mwandoe (Wiper), Cleophas Ngeti (Ford Kenya), Jeremiah Kiwoi (SDP) and Donald Mwawasi (Agano). In Lamu, Mr Hassan Albeity of Wiper Party got the nod to vie for the senatorial seat. In Baringo, Senator Gideon Moi on Monday said he did not get into politics to divide the Kalenjin community. HIT CAMPAIGN TRAIL Mr Moi, who got the nod to defend his seat, said he was ready to hit the campaign trail. In Elgeyo Marakwet, the IEBC cleared Senator Kipchumba Murkomen to defend his seat. Mr Murkomen, who got the clearance at the IEBC offices in Iten Town, dismissed the candidature of his competitor David Kimaiyo of Kanu. Mr Kimaiyo, the former Inspector-General of Police, was also cleared to vie.  Additional reporting by Lucy Mkanyika, Florah Koech and Philemon Suter  