Supporters of Busia governor Sospeter Ojaamong’ disrupted an ODM meeting at a Kakamega hotel after it emerged his nomination certificate was missing. Security personnel had to whisk away an official from the party’s National Elections Board, who was issuing certificates to victors of the primaries from Vihiga, Busia, Kakamega, Trans Nzoia and Bungoma counties. The angry supporters demanded an explanation as to why his certificate was missing, yet he won the party primaries. Nobody was injured or arrested during the fracas. The commotion forced ODM Deputy party leader Wycliffe Oparanya to call off the meeting prematurely. “It is unfortunate that we had to call off the meeting so that supporters can cool down,” he said. Mr Oparanya noted that Mr Ojaamong could not get his certificate with others because it was being backdated. “His certificate was prepared but it had a wrong date that is why it’s not here,” he said. The Kakamega governor also revealed that about four aspirants did not get their certificates because of some technicalities, which the party was addressing in Nairobi. During the handing over ceremony, it was discovered that all MCA aspirants from Samia Sub County — that is home to Funyula MP Paul Otuoma — who has since decamped from ODM, decided to go independent despite winning the nominations. “As a party we have decided to replace them so that ODM can have candidates in the region come August 8,” he said. Among those who were given certificate include Bungoma gubernatorial candidate Alfred Khang'ati and his Vihiga counterpart Wilberforce Otichilo, who said they are ready for the August elections. Earlier on, Norah Anindo, the National Election’s board official, said they decided to give out certificates in Kakamega town ‘in broad daylight’ to avoid seeing certificates being exchanged. “You must be the first people to stretch the hands. As a party we need all our children here. “Ask those who lost to come and support the party. We need to come back home and see what we can do together to deliver in August election,” she said.  