PYONGYANGNorth Korea test-fired a ballistic missile, the latest in a series of launches which have sparked global condemnation and threats of tougher UN sanctions.The South s military said it could not yet identify the type of missile fired from Pukchang in South Pyongan province but it flew about 500 kilometres.Washington described it as a medium-range missile. Our military is closely monitoring signs for additional provocation by the North Korea and we are keeping a full readiness, said a statement from the South s Joint Chiefs of Staff.The launch came just a week after the North fired a Hwasong-12 intermediate-range missile, which according to Pyongyang flew almost 800 kilometres and could carry a heavy nuclear warhead. SIGNIFICANT STEPAnalysts said the Hwasong flew further than any previous missile launched by the North.The May 14 launch was seen as a significant step in the North s weapons capabilities as it accelerates efforts to develop an intercontinental ballistic missile capable of delivering a nuclear warhead to mainland US.The launches, and a threatened sixth nuclear test, have fuelled tension with the US administration.South Korea s President Moon Jae-In called a national security council meeting in response to the launch.A White House official visiting Saudi Arabia confirmed the missile test but appeared to play it down. SHORT RANGE We are aware that North Korea launched an MRBM. This system, last tested in February, has a shorter range than the missiles launched in North Korea s three most recent tests, the official said on condition of anonymity.Pyongyang has long had missiles that can reach targets across South Korea and Japan.With an imputed range of 4,500 kilometres the Hwasong-12 also puts US bases on the Pacific island of Guam within reach.The UN Security Council met behind closed doors last Tuesday to discuss tightening sanctions on North Korea after its May 14 launch.NEW SANCTIONSUS Ambassador Nikki Haley said the United States was working with China, Pyongyang s main ally, on a new sanctions resolution and warned that all countries must step up action against North Korea or face measures themselves. We all have to send a sign to North Korea, and that is: No more. This is not playtime. This is serious. These threats are not welcome , Haley told reporters ahead of the meeting. If you are a country that is supplying or supporting North Korea, we will call you out on it, Haley said.NUCLEAR WEAPONSThe North says it needs missiles and nuclear weapons to deter any attack by the United States.State newspaper Minju Joson Sunday threatened more launches. If the US persists in confrontation with the DPRK (North Korea), the latter will show how the crime-woven history of the US is put to an end, it said. Many more Juche weapons capable of striking the US will be launched from this land. This is the DPRK s answer to the Trump administration, it said, referring to the national philosophy of Juche or self-reliance. email print email print Trump has never clearly stated his policy on the isolated state.