The next session of the East African Legislative Assembly (EALA) looks set to start without members from Kenya owing to a deadlock between the ruling coalition and the Opposition. It started at the Senate on Thursday afternoon, where Homa Bay Senator Moses Kajwang’s motion to have the report of the joint committee overseeing the nomination and election amended to allow Cord to keep its candidates at five was quickly voted down. In the National Assembly a few hours later, Majority Leader Aden Duale prevented an attempt to extend the sitting to give the Opposition time to have the report changed. Mr Duale notified the Temporary Speaker of the lack of quorum and as the quorum bell rang picked up his pile of papers and walked out, to the chagrin of Minority Whip Thomas Mwadeghu, who had started initiating the motion for the extension of the sitting. ACCUSE JUBILEE At a hastily convened press conference later, a frustrated Mr Mwadeghu claimed that Jubilee wants to scuttle the election of Kenya’s members of EALA because it had promised so many people nomination that it could not decide who to have elected. He declared that Cord will not submit more nominees as recommended by the joint parliamentary committee, saying to do so would be playing into Jubilee’s schemes to choose for the Opposition who to go to Eala. “Let them know that under no circumstances will Cord submit more names,” he said. “We cannot create a crisis in the East African region because of personal parochial interests. Jubilee must do what it promised the Kenyan public and dispense of this matter,” said Kajiado Central MP Elijah Memusi. STERN ACTION “We want the Speaker to take stern action against Duale. He cannot raise the issue of quorum and walk out, this is grossly disorderly,” Ms Millie Odhiambo, Mbita MP, said. However, Mr Duale dismissed the accusations from the MPs accusing Mwadeghu of failing to whip his own members. “There were over 60 Cord members in the lobby when the quorum bell was rung. How come Mwadeghu was unable to convince them to enter the chambers?” Mr Duale asked. READ: Nominees for Eala seats continue with lobbying In the Senate, Mr Kajwang had argued that the law has given political parties discretion to submit to Parliament a minimum and maximum number of nominees. “The five members we have submitted are within the minimum the law provides,” he said, while accusing the joint committee of setting aside rules adopted by both Houses on the election of Eala members. SEVEN MORE NAMES But Senate Majority Leader Kithure Kindiki had pleaded with the opposition to submit the seven additional names and save the country from subjecting the region to political paralysis. “It is not a must that Kenya should always be whipped into complying with the East African Community Treaty. Let’s not colour this election with small interests,” Prof Kindiki  told the House. To add to this, the Senate’s rejection of Cord’s amendments to the report also creates a dilemma on what would happen if the Opposition is eventually successful in the National Assembly and the resolution that they keep their candidates at five is passed. There would then be two reports in Parliament with different resolutions. INTRIGUE CONTINUED The intrigue continued despite the warning by National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi that if Kenyans are not among the new lot of Eala members, who will be sworn in on June 4, they would miss out on opportunities to head committees and exert Kenya’s influence. The delay also gives Jubilee Party time to settle on its candidates. So far, former National Assembly Clerk Justin Bundi  and former Kamukunji MP Simon Mbugua appear to be the frontrunners. Mr Bundi enjoys the support of MPs, who are happy to reward him for his work for them over the last four years. Mr Mbugua is believed to have been rewarded for agreeing to leave the Jubilee Party ticket for Kamukunji to the incumbent, Yusuf Hassan. GIVEN UP BID Notably, President Kenyatta’s private secretary, Jomo Gecaga, co-ordinated the press conference at which Mr Mbugua announced that he had given up his bid. Former PS Mutea Iringo has also made a strong showing and has been spotted in Parliament, huddling with the MPs, for several days since the list of candidates was announced. READ: Duale urges MPS to reject Cord's Eala candidates He is banking on his experience and technical ability arising from his education and experience in government. He has a Masters in International Studies from the University of Nairobi, with his thesis being on the challenges of multiple membership on EAC regional integration. The former PS also used to lead Kenyan delegations to international meetings on security and border-related matters as a secretary, senior deputy secretary and then PS at Interior and then Defence ministries. EXUDED CONFIDENCE Others that the Nation spoke to exuded confidence that they would get the backing of the MPs. Mr Ronald Ngeny, one of Cord’s candidates, said: “The lobbying has been good for me, actually members have been sympathising with me because I narrowly missed the chance last time with only three votes.” Mr Ngeny said he is heavily relying on MPs from Rift Valley from across the political divide to sail through. Mr Pius Atok, former CEO of the Kenya National Chamber of Commerce, said he has the requisite skills and experience to be at EALA. He said he has been working with IGAD on cross-border market issues within the East African region and the best place to champion for just rights is EALA. MARKET ISSUES “I fully understand cross border market issues and I have also been at the community mainly dealing with market policies and, therefore, EALA is the right place for me.” Ms Florence Jematian said: “I have heard a difficult time in lobbying because most MPs don’t know me unlike my competitors who are well known but after introduction most legislators listened to me and I am confident I will get the highest number of votes.” Ms Jematian said her Masters in International Relations where he also studied diplomacy and integration will come in handy in articulating issues at EALA. “I have worked closely with political parties and also at the Rural Electrification Authority (REA) and therefore I know a lot about policies,” Ms Jematian said. -Additional reporting by Ibrahim Oruko  