Many Kenyans consider real estate one of the best  investment options in, and to many, it begins with buying a parcel of land. But what happens you finally acquire that piece of land for which you worked so hard when you don’t have the money to develop it immediately? Mr Martin Cheboror, a real estate valuer, notes that, “Out of excitement, many people find themselves rushing to invest in land before figuring out exactly what they want to do with it. For some, it is purely for speculative purposes.” Mr Brian Ondimu, a realtor concurs, adding: “Lack of resources for developing land and buying for speculative purposes are some of the reasons  people have land lying idle.” However, Mr Ondimu adds, “Whether you buy land to build on it or as an investment for  the future, its location matters. Its proximity to important amenities, as well as climatic and environmental factors, affect the way you can use the  land before you are ready to develop it.” “Instead letting land lie idle, the first thing you should do is consult a valuer to conduct a feasibility study, and advise you on the best use to which you could put the land,” he says. Mr Gilbert Kibire, head of valuation at Advanced Valuers in Nakuru, adds another angle to the issue: “The real estate market is an imperfect market and every market is localised. Some people buy without clear information or knowledge of the market and, therefore, some might end up buying land where they did not intend to.” The valuer, who has been in the industry for more than a decade, notes that some organisations also have restrictions on the percentage they can hold on assets. GREATER IDEA “For instance, a parastatal’s investment in land might be restricted to 30 per cent, so if it exceeds this,  it might be forced to hold on to the land without necessarily developing it,” Mr Kibire offers. “In some cases, the owner of the vacant piece of land might be an absentee landlord, probably out of the country. Or one might  have acquired a piece of land in one town while they are based elsewhere,”  he adds. He further notes that a parcel of land could be lying idle because there is a dispute over it.  “Where legal cases are involved, a piece of land is likely to remain idle until the pending cases are solved,” he says. “While raising finances to develop a piece of land is, indeed, a challenge for some people, Mr Cheboror says, there is the option of approaching financiers such as banks for loans to develop it. However, he adds, even if getting a loan is not possible,  you should seek ways of earning from your land instead of letting it lie  idle. “While letting land lie idle just waiting for its value to appreciate might be a good idea, making money from it is even a greater idea,” Mr Cheboror asserts. And there are many ways of earning from undeveloped land. These include: Lease and licensing Depending on the location of your land, you can lease it for, say five to ten years  as you look for money to develop it. All you have to do is give conditions regarding what you would want done or not done on your land during this period,” says Mr Kibire. Regarding licensing he says: “A licence is a short-term lease. It is especially handy if you believe you will be able to raise the funds you require to develop the land before, say five years, since it can be renewed  annually.” Farming “Depending on the location of your land, the type of soil, climate and demand, it might be suitable for farming. And even if it is not very big, there is always something that can work,” Mr Ondimu says. “If you can do some agribusiness out of town but not too away from the city or major towns, you can reap a lot simply by  supplying nearby markets. You can set up greenhouses, plant vegetables, fruits and other produce that is high demand,” suggests Mr Kibire. Greenhouse farming is becoming increasingly popular, notes Mr Cheboror. “Unlike outdoor farming, greenhouses are set up with the ideal environmental conditions for whatever you are growing to ensure that you get the highest possible yield,” he adds. The good thing is, even if you are not interested in  farming yourself, you can make a tidy sum by leasing the land to a farmer. “If you have a big piece of land, then it is possible to use it for large-scale farming,” says Mr Ondimu, noting that you would also have to consider factors such as the availability of water. Then there is the issue of roads because the produce will have to be transported from the greenhouse to the consumer. Recreational centre Mr Kibire says recreational centres and open spaces are becoming common features of modern living. With an increasing population, social and economic hardships, the need for a place to unwind has led to the appreciation of open spaces. “Recreation is an accepted and important purpose for land use. “Whether it is by setting up a wedding garden, a children’s play park, or simply an open space, such a venture is a good option,” he says. Mr Cheboror agrees, adding that with the right approach and marketing, you are  likely to reap big from such a venture. He, however, points out that this comes with certain challenges. “For example, setting up a park will require a sizeable piece of land. In addition, in order to make it attractive, you will have to make some changes, say by having parts of it landscaped, which costs money,” he says. As Mr Ondimu asserts, location also matters. “A recreational centre should be away from the hustle and bustle of the city, but then again not too far off,” he notes People love to step out and enjoy beautiful scenic views across the country. If your land is located close to a river, mountain or any other scenic views, you can always establish a camping site,” suggests Mr Cheboror. “With such a venture, you are assured of making enough cash that will take care of the maintenance as well. Marketing and making your camping site attractive is what matters,” he adds. However, Mr Ondimu notes that a camping site might require a huge tract of land. “People want to be able to enjoy nature at its best. This might include walking through nature trails, watching wildlife as well as other scenic views. If your of land is not located in a place with such features, this might not be the best idea for you,” he says. Parking lot In the past few years, the number of vehicles imported into the country has risen steadily. With increasing populations in the city and county headquarters, the demand for parking spaces has, inevitably, gone up. “If your piece of land is close to a main road in the city or a growing town, it will not hurt to convert it into a parking lot and earn some cash from it. The amount raised during this period could  come in handy for whatever other projects you have planned for it in future,” says Mr. Cheboror. However, he adds, “You must get all the necessary approvals from the city or county authorities to avoid problems after you start operating.” Storage and warehousing “Proximity to markets and urban centres is a crucial factor when it comes to using  undeveloped land. If you own a piece of land that is close to a commercial area, you could easily use it as a storage facility by setting up stalls where people can keep their merchandise,” suggests Mr Cheboror. “So long as the piece of land has some shelter, people can store different things. It can serve as storage for hay or a depot for fertilizers or any other produce,” adds Mr Kibire. He says security is an important factor. “Having electricity connected  would undoubtedly be a great idea if you decide  use it as  a storage facility,” he says. “An outdoor storage facility allows you to provide shelter and charge fees for safekeeping. Whether it is vehicles or items of machinery, an outdoor setting can work well on a free piece of land. While you might have to use some cash to enhance security , this amount will be nothing compared to what you make at the end of the month,” adds Mr Kiboror While Mr Ondimu agrees, he is quick to point out that warehousing can work only in certain locations. “Warehousing is limited by regulations as they are mostly restricted to industrial areas such as Mombasa Road. If your vacant piece of land is not in an industrial zone, then using it as a warehouse is not possible,” he notes. Tree growing There is a whole unseen value on a vacant piece parcel of land in terms of natural resources available. “Planting and harvesting timber on a vacant piece of land will earn you a substantial amount of money before you make up your mind on the final use,” says Mr Cheboror However he adds, you should do this only if you don’t intend to develop the land for a considerable time. “Some trees take up to 10 years to mature, so if you are looking to make an extra buck before developing your piece of land, this might not be the most suitable venture for you. Vehicle stage “If you have a piece of land lying idle, you can lease it out to a public transport company as a matatu terminus or stopover point. With a simple structure, a few eating points and washrooms, this is likely to be a profitable venture,” suggests Mr Kibire. Temporary stalls/structures If you have a vacant piece of land in a prime location in the city of growing towns,  you can set up a few stalls and still rake in  a lot of money,” says Mr Kibire “Vibanda (booths) eateries are a common feature in manyurban centres, where people set up temporary eateries that are partly open, clean and serve great food. Whether you run it yourself or rent it out, this is an idea that will earn you profit on your land, and especially if it is close to commercial centres,” says Mr Cheboror. Marketing and Advertising “An idle piece of land that is close to a highway can earn you some  from advertising through billboards. Outdoor advertising companies will lease the land and cover the cost of their billboards,” says Mr Cheboror. Mr Kibire, however notes the downside of such a venture, “In urban centres, billboards are mostly put up on buildings. He adds that marketing on a vacant piece of land might  occupy only a small segment of the land, meaning that you will not be using the land optimally. “I would advise that you consult a valuer who can  do a feasibility study to determine the highest and best possible uses of the land. If you are short of finances, you can get a loan or get into a joint venture with someone who will contribute finances while you contribute the land,” Mr Ondimu suggests. Mr Kibire, concurs: “It is important to consult real estate professionals before investing on any piece of land. The advice you get will be invaluable.”  