Nyandarua County leaders have demanded the arrest and prosecution of a police officer who shot dead a youth and seriously wounded another man during protests in Magumu market in Kinangop. Led by Jubilee gubernatorial candidate and former head of the civil service Francis Kimemia, the leaders claimed there is an attempt to cover up the shooting and demanded that investigations be handled by detectives from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations headquarters. GUNS “Justice must be done. The police officer who shot the deceased is well known, why use live bullets, we want him dismissed from police service, arrested and charged, we cannot allow criminals masquerading as police officers to continue serving in the police,” he said. Mr Kimemia said trigger-happy and indisciplined police officers damage the reputation of the government and police services and should be dealt with. He questioned the justification of police using live bullets to disperse peaceful protesters. “We buy guns to protect the lives and property of all Kenyans, not to kill them,” said Mr Kimemia. Ndaragwa Jubilee parliamentary nominee Jeremiah Kioni said the bullet that killed Samuel Muiruri can be traced to the gun holder. “All guns in this country are registered, they all have serial numbers and its known who owns which gun. It is against the law to use live bullets against demonstrators,” said Mr Kioni. BULLET WOUNDS Senate Jubilee candidate Mwangi Githiomi said Mr Muiruri was shot in a medical clinic where he had gone to seek treatment. “Certainly, it’s very painful, we do not understand why the police officer is still a free man and entrusted with a gun,” said Mr Githiomi. Mr Muiruri was shot in the abdomen and died on May 13 on arrival at Kijabe Hospital. He was buried at his Njabini home over the weekend. The other victim, David Warui, 56, is still nursing bullet wounds. Mr Muiruri's mother and other residents said the two victims were shot while in the compound of a medical clinic at Fly Over. They were shot during protests in support of woman rep-nominee Faith Gitau after the Political Parties Disputes Tribunal nullified her win and directed that the Jubilee Party hand it to incumbent Wanjiku Muhia. The High Court has since overturned the tribunal ruling and declared Ms Gitau winner.   Another resident also suffered serious gunshot wounds.