Hi Mr Kitoto,First, I would like to thank you for the good work you are doing, advising people and changing their lives. We appreciate you out here. Now, I read your article on May 1, 2017, about a certain woman who is HIV-positive living healthy and acknowledges her condition. She sounded so focused and does not look down on herself just because of her status. If I remember correctly, her issue was about finding love. I have a lot in common with her and I would be grateful if you could link me up with her. I know you are not a dating hook-up site but kindly assist. I would be truly grateful. You can also forward this e-mail to her so that, if she feels it is okay to contact me, she can do so. PeterHi, I am grateful for your kind words. Well, as you already know, our desire is to make a difference in people s lives. This forum offers those who need to vent, share or seek counsel to do so. I am glad you were moved by the love journey of one of our readers. Since it is great to let others know that they have secret admirers even when they might not be aware of them, I have decided to publish your request so that she can be encouraged by your comments. Our policy remains to give our readers the privacy they need when they seek assistance with their issues. **** Being HIV-positive is not the end of the worldHi Mr Kitoto,Thanks for the good advice you provide in response to people s problem. God bless you. I hope you can give the HIV-positive woman who was looking for a partner (May 1, 2017) my e-mail address since I would like to meet her because being HIV-positive is not the end of the world. She should have self-confidence since her status is not as bad as that of someone suffering from cancer. Jerry.Hi Jerry,I appreciate your concern and desire to connect with the woman in question. However, I believe that every situation is different. Two people might suffer from a cold but their reaction to the cold will be completely different. I would like to say it is not fair for you to compare her status with that of a person suffering from cancer. Let s just appreciate the fact that she has been bold and lives her life confidently and will not allow anything to intimidate her. I also feel that God will be gracious and connect both of you with spouses who will bring you great satisfaction.As I have mentioned above, we value confidentiality and giving you her contact would breach that. email print email print