Senators will be involved in MPs’ consideration of a Bill on funding counties in the next financial year even before it goes to the Senate, as a way of resolving issues that resulted in the collapse of the same legislation earlier this year. National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi on Sunday said he had asked Budget and Appropriations Committee chairman Mutava Musyimi to take the unusual step to avoid a cash crunch in the counties at the end of June. “I have requested them to include the members of the Finance Committee of the Senate so that whatever the differences are, they are able to resolve them in the interests of facilitating the counties to budget,” said Mr Muturi. Speaking after a retreat with parliamentary reporters in Mombasa, Mr Muturi said the Division of Revenue Bill has to be speeded up and passed so counties can start preparing their budgets. BUDGET The Constitution allows the National Assembly to continue processing the Appropriations Bill – the law that shares out money between ministries, commissions, the Judiciary and Parliament – even before the Division of Revenue Bill is finalised. “These are some of the issues in our Constitution that not many people have actually applied their minds to. It should not have been left that the national level can continue to operate without the counties operating,” said Mr Muturi. He said Kenya could borrow from the United States to allow counties to prepare their budgets based on the revenue they collect and then have what comes from the national government going to specific areas. Last Wednesday, MPs began the process of getting the Bill back in the legislative pipeline. It was the same Bill they approved earlier in the year before the dispute with the Senate began on whether the devolved units ought to get more money than had been approved by the Senate. In the Bill, the counties have been allocated a total Sh323.7 billion, Sh291.1 billion of which is to be shared equitably. MEDIATION Senators wanted the amount increased to Sh353 billion and Sh314 billion shared equitably. The mediation committee talks on the Bill collapsed after senators missed the last meeting in protest at the National Assembly’s approval of the Appropriation Act. Mr Muturi suggested that Kenyans elect to Parliament people who are intellectually capable of handling the serious business in the House. “It is critical that the people you bring to Parliament are people who will understand and appreciate what is going through. "Why, for example, would we be tussling over the Division of Revenue Bill when we know that counties cannot prepare their budgets without the Division of Revenue Act?” he said. He said such an important Bill should not be subjected to the vagaries of mediation.   Mutula Kilonzo and Beth Mugo say the proposal to reduce MPs salary is in order.