More than 20 counties have snubbed a workshop convened by the anti-corruption commission to declare their assets in Nakuru. The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) had invited technical officers in charge of the declaration of income, assets and liabilities from all the 47 counties. PS ANGER The counties that kept off the workshop on declaration of wealth include Makueni, Trans-Nzoia, Kisii, Garissa, Nyandarua, Kajiado, Nyamira, Lamu, Tharaka Nithi and Wajir. Others are Turkana, Nyeri, Kericho, Tana River, Kirinyaga, Isiolo, Baringo, Kilifi, Vihiga and Mombasa. Devolution Principal Secretary Micah Pkopus Powon slammed the 23 counties that failed to send representatives for the workshop at Egerton University in Njoro. "I did not expect any county to miss in such a crucial forum aimed at helping our country overcome this monster called corruption that is threatening to bring our country to its knees," said Mr Powon. Consequently, he asked the EACC to initiate investigations into the counties’ failure to send representatives. "These counties need to explain why they failed to send representatives to such a meeting because if a PS and EACC commissioners can attend why are counties failing to send representatives?" he said. "This is a serious issue. We either save our country or lose our country.” 60 OFFICERS He added :"This meeting is very important and that is why I have taken time to travel from Nairobi to Egerton University to join you and help redeem the integrity of our country." The PS urged all counties to speed up the registration of fixed assets to protect them from potential grabbers. He noted that most of the fixed assets belonging to the counties had not been registered since the inception of devolution in 2013. "We need to safeguard these public assets because they may be grabbed," said Mr Powon. More than 60 technical officers handling declaration of income, assets and liabilities in 24 counties are attending the two-day workshop. The PS said it would be wrong for the officers to attend the workshop and spend public funds and fail to utilise all the skills they would have learned. CORRUPTION "You should not come and sleep in such a workshop and when you go back to your stations you sleep on the job. You should implement fully what you have learnt," he said. He urged the EACC to collaborate with the Education ministry and launch a curriculum that will be used to fight corruption through education. "Our children should be taught the dangers of corruption from an early stage and this should be escalated to universities,” he said. “This is the best way to seal the corruption loopholes that emerge later in life.” He warned that the fruits of devolution may not be enjoyed by ordinary citizens if corruption is not dealt with. He reminded the officers that corruption cost the country Sh270 billion during the 2010/2011 financial year, which translates to 30 per cent of the national budget. WEALTH "Corruption is costly and leads to lack of productivity, inefficiency, decrease in foreign investment and most importantly corruption increases inequality in the society," he said. He directed the county officials to ask workers in their areas to declare their wealth and account for the use of resources entrusted with them. “Declaration of wealth practice should be inculcated in all ranks,” he said. He said laws alone cannot be used to fight corruption and urged the EACC to involve the public. "We need to institutionalise the fight against corruption because integrity is not a 90 or 95 per cent thing but a 100 per cent personal value," said Mr Powon.  