Dance music is the way to go now and my plan is to make the world dance. My real name is Newton Kamau. I have small eyes and when I was young I was nicknamed Bruze (from Bruce Lee) but with a Z and it became my name. Bazokizo gave me my first ever music award nominations. A lot of people don’t know I’m the voice in the Bazokizo chorus and the last bridge, people assume it’s just Collo. We’ve been nominated in three categories; Song of the Year, Afro Pop song of the Year and Collaboration of the Year. I’ve never been to the Groove Awards so to make my debut with three nominations is really humbling. Collo and I we had gone for the Gudi Gudi video shoot and in between takes we were just talking and that’s where the idea for Bazokizo was born. He told me he had a dance song that he wanted to do. Coincidentally, I was in studio looking for a dance song that I could do as well. So we decided to join forces. (Initially he wanted to redo Makarena with a Kapuka beat.) Producer Jack on the Beat made us a new track, the beat was great but we didn’t have ideas for the song. The chorus was supposed to be Kuyumbayumba, we tried it but it just didn’t feel right (Laughs). My friend called Bazokize had this great dance move. I told him that I would incorporate that move in a song one day. Bazokize is a Rwandese name by the way and he is the guy with the red pants in the video. With that in mind, I told Collo about him and we came up with Bazokizo which felt right unlike Kuyumbayumba. In 40 minutes we were done writing the song and the next day we took an hour to record. The recording was so much fun, when Collo laughs at the beginning of the song that is real, it’s not rehearsed. Bazokize came up with the move and I choreographed it with Omosh who is the guy in the video who looks like he is about to snap his neck sideways. "Zigwembe" is my new dance song and I’m overwhelmed by the response. At first I was scared about doing the song alone and doubted whether people would like it especially after Bazokizo’s success. The comments on YouTube are positive, I’ve been told the beat is good and the song makes sense. IT'S EASY FOR ME TO CHOREOGRAPH I can take about a day to choreograph a routine but it also depends on the artiste. It’s easy for me to choreograph but the hard part is making it as easy as possible. Bazokizo was easy. I work in a gym in Komarock estate as a dance instructor. I spend most of my time at the gym and people usually think I’m there to rehearse but it’s an excuse for me to work out. I started dancing back in high school when I was in Form Two, I participated in the dance show Sakata with the group Titans. We came in second after FBI. We didn’t win any money but we had bragging rights considering we were still in school. My style is different because I dance to lyrics. Dance is lucrative depending on who you are, your connections and you’re principles. Some of the highest paid dancers might make a minimum of Sh30,000 per performance. However those coming up can go home with as little as Sh500. There are people who go for road shows, dance the whole day and are only paid Sh1000. The thing that kills the dance industry is… you get dancers from high school who only know how to dance to dancehall with about four moves and they form a dance crew. Anyone can be a dancehall dancer, yes, they have the hunger to make it which is great but they will take any amount. When we started we would pay for tickets to shows just to get an opportunity to talk to the emcee to give us a chance to perform. There are some things you just have to go through. I’ve danced with Zangalewa and got paid Sh500 per week. Dancing is a passion. I’ve choreographed for so many artistes like Bahati, Calvo Mistari, The Kansol, DNA, Amelina, Fuse ODG, Naiboi, Pascal Tokodi and many more. Before I choreograph a dance, I listen to the song and try to visualise what the artiste wants then I call guys and we start working. I prefer working with my own people. But there are artistes who, because of budget restrictions, call their friends who can’t dance and most times it gets so bad that I have to dance in the video. So if you see me in some videos just know that something went wrong (laughs). It’s a struggle working with an artiste who doesn’t understand the visual aspects of choreography. Some artistes will send you a song and when you ask which part of the video they want a dance routine they say the whole song. That can’t happen because you can’t show the whole choreography in the video. So when they launch it they have slowed everything down and only show about three moves. That’s why I usually ask which part of the song; chorus, bridge or verse they want it done. It doesn’t make sense to ask dancers to perform the entire song then not utilise their efforts well. Music was my first passion even before dance. I remember growing up watching Michael Jackson and saying one day I would want to do what he used to do. Most of what I know I’ve learnt from YouTube and from so many artistes behind the scenes. When I auditioned for the Kuwa True advert I actually went as an extra. It was around 10am and I waited around until 10pm when they told me I would be the main character. I couldn’t believe it because there were stunning models who looked good. The guys looked buffed so in my mind I was okay with being an extra (laughs). The best thing in this life is to be humble. I won’t say exactly how much but I was paid not less than Sh50,000. I realised that amount was too little after three months. It was disappointing because the ad ran for like a year. I almost got another advert for one of the betting companies. I was picked as the main character and left a happy man but the call never came to tell me about the shoot. On my way to teach a class in Hurlingham I saw the advert being shot! I just ignored it and told myself maybe it was another advert. When I called to enquire, they just said, ‘we chose another guy.’ Ever since Bazokizo I’ve been getting calls for gigs. I want to change people’s perceptions that I’m not just a dancer. I want to change people’s perceptions about music too. Gospel artistes don’t have to sing about problems all the time. No one wants to sing about the cars and houses they have been blessed with, all you see in their videos are tattered clothes. I feel gospel music in Kenya focuses more on poverty and artistes forget to sing about what they have and to thank God for it. @jmmosongo  