Q. I am a junior employee working at the procurement department of one of the top supermarket chains in the country. Over time, I have discovered that the department does not value the place of formal and timely communication. Memos come late, and mostly we operate under short notices. While nothing very serious has happened so far, I have a hunch that this lack of proper communication will trigger irredeemable damage sooner than later. How can I approach and share my views with my seniors without seeming to overstep my mandate?  Communication at workplace is not only very essential but also a key productivity driver. Where poor communication exists, there will be poor execution of business goals and plans. A story is told of a certain hospitalwhere any patient admitted on a specific intensive care bed would die at a particular time every so often. Investigations revealed that at that particular time, the cleaner would come to the ward and switch off power connection to the life support machine, fix their cleaning equipment and happily go about their work. Had the importance of continued power supply to the patient been explained to the cleaner, a lot of lives would have been saved. That is the power of communication.  Brilliant ideas can only get implemented effectively through effective communication. Poor communication is driven by different factors, the main one being lack of knowledge on importance of communication. Leaders communicate differently and if the leadership executives have a tendency towards last minute communication, whether through emails, memos, meetings or social media, you will find that this will influence the organisation’s communication culture. The truth of the matter is that poor communication can only be improved through feedback. You need to organise your team and discuss with your supervisor the delivery challenges you are facing through short notices and last minute communication. Demonstrate the risks involved and the catastrophic impact on the business and team effort. You could make suggestions and propose timelines on when information regarding certain processes has to be received. Try and understand the circumstances triggering delays and see what your team can do to support your supervisor for timely feedback.  