Jubilee Party nominees in Kiambu County have welcomed Governor William Kabogo’s come back as an independent candidate to defend the seat and told him to brace for a more embarrassing defeat than which he experienced during the party primaries. The leaders termed Mr Kabogo’s candidature which he announced on Sunday as “inconsequential” and told him that his union with other losers in Mount Kenya was destined to flop because independent candidates will not be entertained in the region. They were senator Kimani Wamatangi, Kabete MP Ferdinand Waititu who is the governor nominee, Gathoni Wamuchomba (Woman Rep) nominee, MP nominees Alice N’gan’ga (Thika) Kimani Ichun’gwa (Kikuyu), Moses Kuria (Gatundu South), Ann Kibe (Gatundu North) and Kago wa Lydia (Githunguri) Others were Githua Wamachukuru (Kabete), Paul Koinange (Kiambaa), Peter Mwathi (Limuru), N’gan’ga Kingara (Ruiru) and Jonah Mburu (Lari) and all the 60 ward representative nominees, who in their speeches, vowed to work as a team and called for a six-piece suit voting in August. The leaders spoke at Ndumberi Stadium on Sunday evening where they received their nomination certificates. HANG BOOTS Mr Kabogo, they said, should have hanged his boots because he is headed for another humiliation since he will face the some voters who rejected him. Senator Wamatangi said Mr Kabogo and other leaders from Mount Kenya region who lost during the primaries should respect the decision of the voters. To him, the party ticket losers should be sure of another rejection at the ballot should they insist on contesting as independent candidates. “President Kenyatta is the general of central Kenya region and presently he is the general of the country and we are not seeking to replace him or get a substitute until 2022. “We will not divide our people because of individuals who have been meeting in hotels and boardrooms with a view to strategising on how to control politics in our region,” he said. Mr Wamatangi said the losers should not blame President Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto because the two never had preferred candidates. Governor Kabogo is being seen as the independent aspirants’ leader after he presided over a meeting last week bringing together governors Joseph Ndathi (Kirinyaga) Kinuthia Mbugua (Nakuru), three governor aspirants and other 200 aspirants to deliberate on their independent candidature. TREAD CAREFULLY Mr Waititu, who handed Mr Kabogo an embarrassing defeat, said the governor's comeback was a non issue to him. “Let him come. He should not blame the President or his deputy for his loss because it’s the people who rejected him…in fact he will be more humiliated because he will not even get the 69, 000 voters he got in the primaries,” Mr Waititu said. The Kabete MP who has been a fierce critic of Mr Kabogo told those who were defeated to tread carefully, warning them that their plot to unite with the aim of threatening and intimidating the president will back fire on them. Thika MP said: “Those leaders are destined to fail. Uhuru should not be dragged to local and petty politics, he has Nasa leaders to fight with, Gatundu South MP told Mount Kenya voters not to tolerate independent candidates, saying the nominees have now ready to campaign for the president without distractions.  