This year s Nation Golf Circuit resumes this weekend with the Mount Kenya leg at the nine-hole Nanyuki Sports Club course, after a two months break.The first leg of the Nation Media Group-sponsored event took place at Kakamega Golf Club on March 11. A field of 100 players drawn from Nyeri, Nyahururu, host Nanyuki and a number of guests from Thika, Ruiru and Railway, is expected to tackle to par-72 course which is recovering after an awful drought. Club captain Jediel Muriungi on Thursday said the management has worked extra hard to put the course in good condition and ready for the weekend s tournament. We had a terrible drought which really affected the course, but after the recent rains, the course is now looking great though there are some few bad patches, Muriungi said. As usual, NMG is offering some prizes for both the players from the region, guests and NMG staff. Vying for the top prizes will include Muriungi, now playing off six, veteran golfer Peter Waweru and defending champion Richard Kabugi. But in addition to the golf event, NMG staff will donate text books to Ngaremara Primary School pupils in Isiolo. The school is one of those on the Newspaper In Education (NIE) programme that aims at building brand publicity and readership for both Daily Nation and Taifa Leo amongst primary school pupils. The School has a population of 1,000 pupils drawn from the surrounding Ngaremara area. These pupils are mostly from low income backgrounds and they are recipients of the NIE programme courtesy of the World Vision Isiolo which purchases the Newspapers. The programme is aimed at improving literacy levels, expanding the world view of the pupils by exposing them to the world beyond Isiolo Township. To achieve all these mentioned benefits, teachers from the school underwent a training workshop in the year 2015 at the inception of the programme in the area. Back in Nairobi, Vet Lab Sports Club will Friday and Saturday host the Kenya Golf Union (KGU) Chairman s (Muchau Githiaka) Prize which basically winds up his term in office. The event, which will be followed by the KGU annual general meeting next Friday, is being sponsored by Glenfidich, KCB and Izon Future Systems. Over 200 players including some of the local professionals will be battling it out for cash and other prizes. Meanwhile, action in the ladies national calendar switches to Royal Nairobi Golf Club this weekend where over 100 players were drawn for the Royal Ladies Open. Most of the leading lady golfers including those in the Zambia-bound G and P team such as Jane Njau, Agnes Nyakio, Jane Njoroge, and Joyce Wanjiru will be in action. email print email print KLGU has released the names of the national ladies team for this year s Gilberson and Page Trophy.