The Nation Media Group has pledged to cover the forthcoming General Election in Kenya in a manner that will enable voters to make informed choices on August 8. The group’s leadership said it will equitably offer its digital, electronic and print platforms to politicians seeking elective offices. Nonetheless, NMG Chief Executive Officer Joe Muganda and Editor-in-Chief Tom Mshindi said this must be done in a responsible manner. Speaking at Nation Centre in the company of the media house’s senior editors, Mr Mshindi said the company started planning for the coverage last year and launched it in February with the Nation 10-Point Agenda, which outlined issues the group felt were important for the country and which incumbents and their challengers ought to address. NATIONAL ISSUESThese include the high cost of living, tribalism and national unity, corruption, provision of health and education services, unemployment, land reforms, food security and national security. They were published as “Our Agenda for Kenya”. He said NMG had also covered profiles of the candidates and issues across the counties and will soon introduce an election platform and also host presidential debates in July. “We do want to be fair, so the Election Platform is going to be a key element that we will be introducing going forward to ensure that we give each and every one of these parties, participants or candidates space to articulate their issues,” Mr Mshindi said. NMG, he said, will fact-check statements made by politicians. “We will be doing it very liberally because, unfortunately, a lot of times our leaders just make statements that have no basis at all in truth and we want to call them out on this.” TRAINING Mr Muganda added: “We are confident that, at the end of the exercise, we will have played our role in ensuring that voters are adequately informed to make wise choices. We will come out having done our job well and confidently.” As the leading media house in the region, Mr Muganda said NMG journalists have a responsibility to ensure they do their job professionally. “We must live by the guidelines in our editorial policy and we should do this in a responsible manner,” he said. One way of ensuring appropriate execution of duties, NMG journalists are currently undergoing training.  