Six people died after a perimeter wall collapsed on their house in Kizingo, Mombasa. Bodies of the six, among them three children and their mother, and the woman’s nephew, were trapped in the debris for hours before they were retrieved by police, Kenya Red Cross Society officials and the county inspectorate team. The sixth victim was a cassava vendor at a nearby kiosk, Mzee Kamanza Nguta, 70. BODIES RETRIEVED The other victims were identified as Mariam Chirindo Mwanduka (30), her three children — Hamisi Kamau (six and a half), Francis Mwanduka (four) and Ismail Kote (one and a half). The nephew was identified as six-and-a-half year-old Amir Chea Chidima. Mombasa Urban police boss Lucas Ogara said the perimeter wall at Pandya Memorial Hospital collapsed on the house near Mbaraki Primary School due to heavy rains that have been pounding the county. “We have retrieved all the bodies. They were taken to Coast General Hospital mortuary as our officers and other teams continue helping in clearing the area,” Mr Ogara said when he visited the scene. HEAVY RAINSIt was a dark Monday afternoon for Ms Sofia Chea, a middle-aged mother of four after she lost her son Amir, her sister-in-law Mariam and three nephews. “My sister-in-law came here recently to seek medication. She was suffering from tuberculosis and she visited Coast General Hospital last week and was waiting to collect more drugs before returning home in Rabai, Kaloleni in Kilifi County,” the tearful Ms Chea said. “It was raining heavily and I was trying to cover a window with cellophane papers when suddenly I heard a big bang and shouts from outside,” the woman said. She said that pandemonium broke out when neighbours came out in the rain, shouting that some people had been buried under the wall. “I started shouting my son’s name but heard no reply. I quickly realised that he was trapped under the wall together with my sister-in-law and her children,” she said. LUCKY ESCAPEShe was joined by neighbours and passers-by but they could not lift the heavy wall. It was around 3pm. When Red Cross and county officials arrived and begun the rescue mission, six bodies were pulled from under the rubble, including her son’s. Mzee Nguta used to sell cassava to children of the nearby Mbaraki Girls primary and secondary school. Sources said the casualties would have been more had the school children, who usually throng the cassava kiosk, not left. They had just returned to class. Meanwhile, traffic on the Malindi-Mombasa highway was disrupted for nearly three hours after a section of the Mbogolo bridge was submerged by floods. DAMAGED BRIDGELater, as the water subsided, two huge cracks appeared on both ends of the bridge, signalling a disaster in waiting. Kilifi county chief officer in charge of devolution and disaster management Adan Mohamed, accompanied by officers from his department, toured the area to assess the damage. He called for quick intervention from the Kenya National highway Authority (Kenha) to avert disaster. “This bridge is now a disaster in waiting and we would like Kenha to immediately send its engineers to come and see how it can be repaired urgently. "We fear that if the rains continue, it will be swept away, completely,” Mr Adan said. FLOODINGHe said his department was ready for any disaster associated with the heavy rains that have been pounding the region since last week. In Taita-Taveta, more than 5,000 people have been displaced from their homes following floods caused by heavy rains pounding the area and neighbouring Tanzania. Residents of Bura Ndogo, Kimorigo, Bahati, Vikwatani, Njoro Kubwa and Chechewa villages were worst affected by the flooding. Taveta Red Cross coordinator Joram Oranga said more than 900 households were affected. “The water is still flowing so we cannot do much now. We are waiting for the water to subside then we will know the exact number of people affected by the floods,” he said. DISPLACEDWomen and children spent the night in the cold on Friday, Saturday and Sunday after they were rendered homeless by the floods. “I was forced to carry my four-month-old baby on my back the whole night. My four children and I have nowhere to sleep. "Today they could not go to school because their books and uniform were all washed away by the floods,” Bahati resident Pamela Kileta lamented. Reporting by Mohamed Ahmed, Daniel Nyassy, Kazungu Samuel And Lucy Mkanyika  