Is there such a thing as a soul mate ? Someone out there who s just right for you who will never change and be faithful, so you ll live happy ever after?Divorce statistics suggest otherwise. But it is possible to find someone who s just right for you. And when you find them, you ll just know it. And will understand why things never worked out with anyone else before. But the signs you ve found your soul mate are probably not what you d expect.Like you probably won t realise you ve met The One until you ve been together a while. But you might notice a few patterns early on which will give you a clue.Like every relationship s constantly tested. Annoying friends, intrusive family members, endless challenges at work and so on. But if you re becoming soul mates, you ll take on the world together. You won t share every argument with your friends, or go running to your parents with a list of grievances.You ll also make each other laugh. Finding a sense of humour that matches yours is hard. But your soul mate will know how to reach you when it matters the most. Making you laugh even when the chips are down.BETTER THAN SELFYou won t nag or keep score. Soul-mates quickly realise that some things are not worth the hassle. When you know you ll be spending your life with someone, you soon learn to let a lot of the little stuff go.And you re good at making each other happy, because you want to. Not because there s some sort of competition going on.You listen to each other, and can share your thoughts honestly. You resolve arguments without tearing each other apart. And learning to forgive and apologise. Spending your whole life with someone also means they ll certainly see you make a fool of yourself - probably many times. It s about living together peacefully. I m sorry, It was my fault, and I was wrong won t ever come easy. But a good sign you re with your soul-mate is that they don t use your apologies as an opportunity to make you feel bad.A soul-mate will know you better than you know yourself. They ll know your clothes sizes, favourite foods, what you re worrying about. And will give you insights into yourself. Soul mates start to develop a joint game plan very early. And each day, in some small way, you ll be working towards your goals together.And you ll have a deep sexual chemistry. You ll touch and kiss each other confidently. You re tender and adventurous. And set aside enough time for intimacy, no matter how difficult life becomes. And because you know how to please each other, and how to meet all your physical needs, chances are you ll never ever part. email print email print