When AFC Leopards skipper Bernard Mang’oli and his Gor Mahia counterpart Musa Mohammed lead their teammates out of the tunnel at Nyayo Stadium in Sunday’s Mashemeji derby, the two rivals will be clashing for the 81st time in 49 years. Leopards, the host team, will be seeking to regain the bragging rights following their 2-0 loss to their eternal rivals in their last meeting in October 23 last year. But back then, Ingwe were in a crisis. The 13-time champions, under the tutelage of coach Ezekiel Akwana, were placed a distant 12th on the SportPesa Premier League standings and 12 points behind Gor who were placed second then. The stakes are different now, as current Leopards coach Stewart Hall has put up a youthful side that has made a fair start to the season. Having led Azam SC to multiple title in Tanzania, Hall’s tactical acumen is not in doubt, and his team’s recent performances have proven his capability. Leopards have won 27 times while Gor have been the better side in 23 occasions while the two sides settled for a draw in their last 80 meetings. But the 2017 season seems to be fairly balanced for the two giants – who share 28 league titles between them with Gor winning the gong a record 15 times. The two are separated by only two points in the league standings, with Ingwe placing sixth and Gor standing at second place with 16 points. Both teams have lost two games each, and Gor Mahia will approach this match on the back of a shock 1-0 loss to Mathare United last weekend. Leopards drew 1-1 with Posta Rangers. Both of them have conceded six goals in their eight games so far, with Ingwe keeping four clean sheets to K’Ogalo’s three. Of the players currently on either squad, only Meddie Kagere and Benard Mang’oli have a chance to increase their scoring tally in a Mashemeji derby. Mang’oli scored in Ingwe’s 3-1 victory on June 8, 2014, while Kagere scored a penalty last October. Ingwe’s Ghanaian striker Gilbert Fiamenyo leads the top scorers’ charts with four goals while Gor’s talisman Meddie Kagere has just two. Although the match will be the first league match at Nyayo Stadium this term, both teams will be out to close the gap on runaway leaders Posta Rangers. Rangers are now five points clear at the summit of the table. The game kicks off at 3pm, and tickets will be sold at Sh300 and Sh1000 for terraces and VIP stands respectively.   It has never been business as usual when AFC Leopards and Gor Mahia cross paths.