I am unable to say whether female animals ever get orgasm. What I know is that other primates have similar sexual organs as humans, including a clitoris. Some scientists have stimulated monkeys and even a cow in the lab and for sure orgasm happened after some time, but that is different from a bull running after a cow and mounting her.That was my answer to Ruth and Samuel when they visited the sexology clinic and asked whether it is only human females who get orgasm in the animal kingdom. But I am a human sexologist, not a veterinary one. Feel free to consult further, I added.The couple had come to the clinic after a heated argument at home. Ruth blamed Samuel for her sexual dissatisfaction. She said the man was fond of stimulating her and rapidly ejaculating leaving her hanging. But that s how animals do it, Samuel interrupted, It is the natural way and you should tune your body to it. Ruth was 27, Samuel 29. They had only been married two months. Before we got married we had sex twice but it was hurried and we felt guilty about it, Ruth explained. I therefore thought the premature ejaculation at that time was a natural consequence. Little did I know that this would be the order of the day. Premature ejaculation has many causes and a thorough medical examination to elicit the cause is very important. Hormonal problems can cause it, as can medical problems such as anxiety or depression.Usually, relationship issues are the cause. If the man feels disempowered and loses his ego, it will result in an inability to hold ejaculation. This may then be coupled with fear of failure to perform that only worsens the situation.NO RELATIONSHIP PROBLEM You know what doctor, my wife and I are fine. We have no relationship problem. I think my wife is exaggerating issues here, Samuel said. To be clear about the problem we were investigating, I decided to define premature ejaculation. Premature ejaculation occurs when one ejaculates before penetration or within a minute of penetration. Also, if either partner is distressed that the ejaculation is happening too early then the problem needs medical attention. On average, penetrative sex takes five minutes. It is also important to note that there are instances when the female takes too long to climax and the man is normal, and this discordance can be misinterpreted as premature ejaculation. Samuel rarely lasts 30 seconds, Ruth said, sounding frustrated.We all agreed that the couple had premature ejaculation. Medical history, examination and laboratory tests however yielded no medical cause. Psychological assessment also gave no cause. A detailed assessment of the relationship showed that it was in a healthy state. The couple understood each other well. There were no power struggles. Communication was perfect.The last area of assessment was the couple s sex techniques. It turns out that they were both amateurs. They grew up in strict religious families and the only sexual experiences they had were the two quick incidences as they prepared to wed. I made a diagnosis of premature ejaculation secondary to lack of sex skills.We developed a sex coaching programme which started with learning the sexual response cycle. The couple had then to learn sensuality and what to do during foreplay. Finally the couple learnt the common sexual dysfunctions and how to handle them. There were a number of assignments to do at home to translate the theory into practical. The couple reported their experiences after the assignments, which helped firm up the knowledge and skills. Three months later, we wound up the sessions. I just missed my periods, Ruth said during our last session, and the pregnancy test is positive so we will need your help with how to handle our intimacy during pregnancy and following delivery. And so as we ended treatment for premature ejaculation, we started coaching on sex during pregnancy. email print email print