In perhaps one of the most hilarious moments this year, Kenyan music lovers on Wednesday took to social media to remember the hit song "Stella", arguably one of the favourite real-life situation love songs. The excitement served to mark the very date — May 17 — the composer says his heart was broken when his fiancée returned home from overseas with a new husband and a child to boot. Posts ranged from fun images of people “going to the airport to welcome Stella on her return from Japan”. One of the most popular Kenyan songs of all time, "Stella" remains a favourite of many music lovers thanks not only to its alluring lyrics but also its danceable beat. And, interestingly, it’s just this one song that, like a single stroke of genius, several years ago catapulted composer Freshley Mwamburi to national fame and recognition across the East African region. LINGUA FRANCA Of course, it was also helped by the fact that it was sung in the lingua franca of East Africa, Kiswahili. Speaking to the Nation on Wednesday, an elated Mwamburi, who is based in Machakos Town, said he was also amused at the fans’ never-ending fascination with the song, which was released 20 years ago. It remains a cherished gem, ranking among the very top Kenyan songs, the biggest of which is definitely Fadhili William’s international blockbuster "Malaika". “Though I wasn’t able to marry Stella, I accepted the reality and I have since moved on,” he said on Wednesday. Mr Mwamburi recalled he started dating Stella in 1994, when they first met at the Garden Hotel in Machakos, where he performed with his Everest Kings band. MEDICAL STUDENT By then, Stella, who comes from Sengani near Kangundo, was a medical student at university. Buoyed by his love for Stella, Mr Mwamburi says he opted to sacrifice nearly everything he had to raise money to support her when she got a scholarship to study in Japan the same year. According to him, she would occasionally turn up at his band’s live concerts. The evergreen hit song remains one of the most favourite Afro-reggae-rumba ballads about love and rejection. The mellow-voiced Mwamburi is on record as having confirmed that the song was a real-life lament about losing his fiancée, whom he had sponsored to study overseas, only for her to return with a Japanese child and accompanied by her “futi-nne Mjapani” (short) husband. SHOCKED HIM In the song, Freshley — a long-time friend of band leader Abdul Muyonga — recalls how Stella’s return to Kenya on May 17 shocked him when he went to receive her at Jomo Kenyatta International Airport in Nairobi. “I was shocked that all I had done for Stella, selling most of my property to support her, was in vain,” he says. The catchy lyrics of the song have been blended with reggae beats. Speaking to the Nation on Monday evening, band leader Muyonga said the song has been more of an anthem during live shows wherever the Everest Kings have performed. Many other bands often do cover versions of "Stella" during live performances. EVEREST BAND The Everest Kings band is currently based in Machakos and performs at the Club Kikao every Friday to Sunday. Others in the Everest Kings are Rashid Makokha and Zombo. To many music lovers, the song has gained popularity with people of all ages due to its human interest appeal. Many people have gone through what Freshley went through, albeit with variations. Besides recording with the Everest Kings, Freshley also had stints with the legendary Les Wanyika band that was led by Tanzanian star John Ngereza, among others. Freshley took part in recording some of the popular songs by Les Wanyika like "Ni Lipi la Ajabu" and the "Safari ya Les Wanyika" album. Freshley did a remix version of "Stella" due to its popularity.   After a long lull, the Everest Kings band is making a comeback. The band, led by Abdul Muyonga, has a new style and an album titled Bonyeza Simu.