Secondary school heads have called on the Education ministry to fast-track approval of extra levies for their institutions to enable them complete development projects. Kenya Secondary Schools Heads Association chairman Kahi Indimuli said delay in approving the request, made in January, had affected operations in schools. “We are calling on the ministry to approve our request. This will enable us complete development projects,” he said. Mr Indimuli, who spoke to the Nation on phone, said the government’s silence on the matter had negative consequences. “It has affected a number schools that had initiated development projects on the assumption that they would be financed by parents. These institutions are now unable to complete their projects,” he said. CHARGING EXTRA LEVIES A circular by Education Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i in 2015 barred principals from charging extra levies. Parents were instead required to pay Sh53,000 for boarding and Sh12,000 for day schools. On Tuesday, Mr Indimuli maintained that school heads were not opposed to the decision by the government to cap school fees. READ: State told to release free learning funds He also asked the government to consider increasing its annual funds for schools and to initiate dialogue with parents on fees payment. “School heads are faced with myriad challenges; the ministry should review the fees stalemate to ensure that changes in the economy are dealt with,” said Mr Indimuli. ACCEPT PROPOSALS He asked parents to accept their proposals. The sentiments were backed by Ramba High School principal James Okoyo. “The ministry should allow schools to charge extra levies,” he said. READ: Parents ask for Matiang'i's help as schools hike fees Meanwhile, regulation of school fees by the ministry has left a number of boarding schools reeling in debts. The most affected are those that charged the recommended fee, with school heads saying they were being forced to adjust their financial obligations to make ends meet. Speaking during Kisii High School’s academic day, the principal, Mr Maurice Ogutu, said the national school was grappling with a debt of more than Sh22 million.  