The office of the Registrar of Political Parties was on Wednesday a beehive of activity as aspirants rushed to beat the deadline for registering as independent candidates in the August 8 General Election. Impatience reigned among the aspirants in long queues at the Lion Place, Nairobi, offices. By 5pm, some 1,400 aspirants had been cleared, with more waiting outside for their date with the registrar. Some of those floored in the Orange Democratic Movement nominations were among the applicants. They included members of Parliament Agostinho Neto Oyugi (Ndhiwa), George Oner (Rangwe) and Silvance Osele Onyango (Kabondo-Kasipul). ASPIRANTS AT CROSSROARS Some aspirants were, however, until Wednesday, at a crossroads since their cases had not been determined as at the deadline. Mr Ezekiel Obonyo, an officer in the registrar’s office, told the Nation the number of aspirants seeking to be members of the county assembly (MCA) formed the bulk of the applicants. “Today it seems like we will work overnight,” said Mr Obonyo. “Yesterday (Tuesday) we closed at midnight and, today being the deadline, we might burn the midnight oil.” Notable faces seen on Wednesday included MPs Kigo Njenga (Gatundu North) and Jared K’Opiyo (Awendo) as well as 2007 presidential candidate Nazlin Umar. JUBILEE DEFECTORS Most of the aspirants decamped from political parties after the nominations. However, others did not take part in the primaries, saying the parties already had their preferred candidates. READ: Big guns seek poll rematch as independents Among the defectors from Jubilee Party seen at the registrar’s office were Senate Deputy Speaker Kembi Gitura, Nakuru Governor Kinuthia Mbugua, Gatanga MP Humphrey Njuguna and senatorial aspirants Dan Wamahiu (Nyeri) and Karungo wa Thang’wa (Kiambu). Those formerly in the Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) included Migori gubernatorial aspirant Ochillo Ayacko who lost to Okoth Obado, Kisumu Governor Jack Ranguma, Taita-Taveta Governor John Mruttu, Funyula MP Paul Otuoma and several other MPs and MCAs. SUBMIT FORMS According to the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) guidelines released on Tuesday, those expecting to be on the ballot on August 8 should have submitted duly filled application forms to the commission by Wednesday. The Elections Act requires independent candidates to have had their name and the symbol approved by the IEBC. One should also not be a member of any political party at least three months to the General Election. For an aspirant to be cleared to run as an independent, they should submit an application letter of request for clearance and a copy of identity card and pay a fee of Sh500. The candidates then receive clearance certificates.   Mr Odinga’s candidacy for President will excite his supporters who will vote for his party members.