John Ngure, one of the leading amateur golfers at Kiambu, last weekend beat a huge field of over 150 golfers at the nine-hole Kiambu Golf Club course to clinch the overall title in the ninth edition of Mountain Classic golf tournament.Playing off handicap four, Ngure bogeyed the last two holes (17th and 18th) but still managed to return 38 points, to claim the overall title, beating men winner Sammy Muriu by four points. Ngure had birdied the seventh, 11th and 16th having bogeyed the par five- second and third and later on at the ninth. Finishing third after a five way countback was Bhupendra Shah on 33 as Michael Wanjohi, David Ndirangu and Patrick Wanjohi followed in fourth and fifth. Lucy Gachimbiri beat Wanjiru Karume on countback for the ladies prize with 32 points. Martin Nyaga on 34 led the sponsors while Michael Karanga won the gross on 81 gross.The nines went to Samuel Gachichio and Solomon Mugwe on 19 and 18 points.At Windsor, home player Maria Cristina Torrado carded level par 72 gross playing off handicap four to win the Ladies Open. CBA TOURNAMENTShe beat Golf Park s Agnes Nyakio by two shots as Eldoret s Esther Chumo finished third on 80 gross. tying for the fourth place on 84 gross was Ariane Recizac of Windsor and Golf Park s Mercy Nyanchama.At Nyanza Golf Club, Jorum Ajulu carded 38 points to win the CBA tournament where Prashant Thakrar was the men winner on 37 points. In third place was Chandaria Kunal with 34 points while Kisii Sports Club s Damaris Kemto Omori was the best lady with with 34 points. She beat Irene Ashioya by four points and the staff prize went to Jeremy Ngunze on 29 points.At Nyali, the Roland Koch Children Trust received rich support from Freight Forwarders Group, Siginon Group, Liquid Telecom, Kenya Commercial Bank, Diamond Trust Bank, Kericho Gold and Hotpoint Appliances and attracted a field of 120 players. The overall winner on 40 stableford points was Walter Starzoch playing off 16 and the mens winner was Ian Marshall playing off 15 on 39 points. Johnson Wamunyua on 35 was second after counting out John Smith who took the third prize and Jon Stokes fourth. email print email print Former GOTY winner wins his first tournament in 2017.