Former champions Ulinzi Warriors will square it out with strong Equity Bank in a tight Kenya Basketball Federation men’s Premier League first leg match at Nyayo National Stadium Gymnasium on Sunday from 4pm. Coach William Balozi’s Ulinzi head the 10-team table standings with 10 points having won all their five outings. Equity Bank have won two matches and lost three and will be seeking to shatter the soldiers unbeaten run. The Eastleigh-based Ulinzi Warriors demolished Lions 102-52 in their last assignment and their top stars Richard Osano, Eric Mutoro and William Ochieng are still enjoying top form. Equity Bank, on the other hand, lost 61-86 to champions Kenya Ports Authority. Vincent Onsongo and new signing Kevin Chogo from Thunder are expected to play a key role in the bankers’ fight for two crucial points. In other top matches scheduled for the same venue tomorrow, newcomers in the Premier League Zetech University, led by coach Job Munene, will walk a tight rope against slippery Co-op Bank. Zetech, who will field William Kombo, Linus Kael and Adriel Madesa, shocked USIU-A Tigers 69-53 and Co-op Bank should expect stiff opposition from the well drilled varsity students. Guard Titus Musembi, forwards Kevin Kigotho and Job Byron led Co-op Bank to a deserved 77-40 win over debutants Umoja and still stand a better chance of maintaining their winning trek. Women’s Premier League defending champions Equity Bank are tipped to keep their clean sheet in four outings when they confront coach Ronnie Owino’s Strathmore University. Equity Bank, who won their first league title last season, top the table standings with six points. Strathmore are still fresh from their easy 54-22 victory over Gladiators and upsetting the strong bankers presents a tough challenge for them. FIXTURES Saturday- (At Upper Hill School): Nebulas v Lakeside (10am), Egerton University v Daystar University (10am), NIBS v 4-Christ (9.30am), Strathmore University v Eldonets (10am), Terrorists v Zetech University (11.30am), Footprints v Kisumu Lady Bucks (1pm), USIU-A v Storms (2.30pm), Barclays Bank v Nakuru Club (4pm).  