ABUJA Nigerian President Muhammadu Buhari has again flown to London for follow-up medical consultations with his doctors. President Buhari, who left Abuja on Sunday night, had been to London twice since last year for the same medical reason. Speculation has been rife that his health had deteriorated badly, but he attended last Friday prayers to douse such grave insinuations. His special adviser on media and publicity, Femi Adesina, disclosed in Abuja that President Buhari had planned to leave Sunday afternoon, but decided to tarry a bit, due to the arrival of 82 Chibok schoolgirls in Abuja earlier in the day. “The President wishes to assure all Nigerians that there is no cause for worry. GOOD WISHES “He is very grateful for the prayers and good wishes of the people, and hopes they would continue to pray for the peace and unity of the nation,” Adesina said. According to Adesina, the length of the president’s stay in London will be determined by the doctors, saying that the government will continue to function normally under Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo. “President Buhari has transmitted letters about the trip to the Senate and the House of Representatives, in compliance with Section 145 (1) of the 1999 Constitution,” he added. President Buhari had travelled to London in January for a similar check-up and returned to Nigeria in March. Before that, in June 2016, the president also travelled to London to seek treatment for an ear infection. SIMILAR MISSION Meanwhile, Vice-President Osinbajo and Senate President Bukola Saraki on Sunday visited President Buhari before he flew out. The president, who confirmed this development on his Twitter page on Sunday in Abuja, said he also received Speaker of the House of Representatives Yakubu Dogara in the Presidential Villa on a similar mission. President Buhari posted: “I received Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo, Senate President Bukola Saraki and Speaker Yakubu Dogara at home this evening ahead of my trip tonight.’’ President Buhari had earlier hosted the 82 rescued Chibok schoolgirls to a light reception shortly before the arrival of Osinbajo, Bukola and Dogara. The President, at the reception, described the rescue of the girls as a pleasant second anniversary gift to Nigerians.   Banki is an off-limits territory that arches past Lake Chad where the battle against Boko Haram is still raging.