Narc Kenya party leader Martha Karua, who is eyeing the Kirinyaga governorship, and Kirinyaga Central MP Gachoki Gitari have teamed up, setting the stage for an epic political battle for the seat. In an exclusive interview with the Nation, Mr Gitari disclosed that he is now the running mate of the shrewd and seasoned politician. "We have met and agreed that we should team up in order to take up the county's top leadership," he said. He went: "Our unity is now official and we shall now [beat our opponents] hands down." It will now be an uphill task for former Devolution Cabinet secretary Anne Waiguru, the Jubilee flag-bearer for the seat. Ms Waiguru, a debutant in active politics, won the Jubilee nominations with a landslide after beating incumbent Governor Joseph Ndathi and Mr Gitari as well as other contenders. EXPERIENCED POLITICIAN Ms Karua is an experienced politician, having served as the Gichugu MP for four terms and as the Justice and Constitutional Affairs minister during President Mwai Kibaki's administration while Mr Gitari is an outspoken politician in Kirinyaga. The duo are now a force to reckon with and it will not be an easy ride for the strong-willed Ms Waiguru, who shot up to the national limelight by virtue of her position as minister. Mr Gitari, who lost to Ms Waiguru in the nominations, agreed to be Ms Karua’s running mate after a series of closed-door meetings. "After failing to clinch the Jubilee ticket, I met Ms Karua and we discussed how we can work together. We met several times and finally we came to the conclusion that we can unite for a common goal," said Mr Gitari. DON'T CELEBRATE YET Recently, Ms Karua told Ms Waiguru to stop celebrating after she won the Jubilee nominations with a big margin. "It is too early for Ms Waiguru to start celebrating," said Ms Karua, who has been criss-crossing the region wooing voters. Mr Gitari described Ms Karua as an honest political leader who has never been implicated in corruption. "Ms Karua is a clean leader who I can be proud to work with. She is also a competent and brave leader who can bring about development in the region," said Mr Gitari. MOU The MP said that during the meeting with Ms Karua, they drew a memorandum of understanding that will soon be made public. However, critics say the political marriage of the two leaders will not achieve anything. "It is their democratic right to unite. But Ms Karua and Mr Gitari will not go far. “They will be dealt a humiliating defeat by Ms Waiguru of Jubilee," said Mureithi Kang'ara, a director of Tana Water Services Board. Mr Kang'ara said Jubilee leaders from the area are behind Ms Waiguru and will campaign for her.   She is confident that she will defeat Ms Waiguru and become the second Kirinyaga governor.