Mr Caroli Omondi, a former aide to Nasa presidential candidate Raila Odinga, is now asking the High Court to order the Registrar of Political Parties to include him in the list of 4,000 independent candidates. Mr Omondi opted to go it alone after losing an appeal in which he sought to be declared the winner of ODM primaries in Suba South Constituency. This came as Siaya Governor Cornel Rasanga got the greenlight to defend his seat after an appeal filed by two voters against his nomination was dismissed. REPEAT PRIMARIESSimultaneously, Mr Justice Luka Kimaru allowed Senator Anyang’ Nyong’o to vie for the Kisumu gubernatorial seat on August 8. On the other hand, Wiper party was ordered by Justice Joseph Onguto to repeat the primaries for Mwingi Central, where former Law Society of Kenya (LSK) chairman Eric Mutua faced off with Mr Gideon Mulyungi. Mr Mutua had appealed against a decision by the Political Parties Disputes Tribunal, saying it failed to appreciate the fact that voters were not given the opportunity to elect a candidate of their choice. Gem MP Jakoyo Midiwo has also challenged the nomination of his opponent Elisha Onyango. UHURU AND RAILA At the same time, a high number of fringe candidates have joined the race for the presidency in the August 8 General Election. At 18, this is the highest number in post-multiparty democracy Kenya since the 1992 elections, when there were eight candidates on the presidential ballot. In 1997, the number almost doubled to 15, reducing to five in 2002, and climbing to nine in 2007, and eight in 2013. Up against the 2017 candidates however is the stark reality of battling against a powerful incumbent, President Uhuru Kenyatta — who is out to ensure history does not make him a one-term Head of State — and veteran opposition politician Raila Odinga. But even with such challenges, the 16 candidates have put on brave faces, saying they have a right to run. “The two big forces cannot say they want a chance to change this country,” Ms Nazlin Rajput Umar said during a live NTV interview on Wednesday. “They did not do so when they had the chance.” PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATESMs Umar, who ran in the 2007 elections and polled 8,624 on the Workers Congress Party of Kenya ticket, was on the television show with three other candidates. These were 2013 presidential candidates Mohamed Abduba Dida, who got 52,848 votes, Kenyatta University’s Michael Wainaina and Mr Stephen Owoko, who are both running as independent candidates. “I am not a Kenyan by default. There are problems affecting me and I want to sort them out,” Mr Dida said. Those running with political parties are Mr Nyamira Kennedy Mong’are (National Liberal Party), Mr Peter Ondeng (Restore and Build Kenya Party), Mr Ekuru Aukot (Thirdway Alliance Party) and Mr Cyrus Jirongo (UDP Party). INVEST IN YOUTHSOther independent candidates include 2007 elections loser Nixon Kukubo, former Co-operatives minister Joe Nyagah, Mr David Munga, Mr Robert Mukwana Juma and Mr Joseph Ngacha. There is also Mr Japheth Kavinga, Mr Joseph Musyoka and Mr Erastus Nyamera. “We must invest in youth infrastructure...I am a teacher. Asking a teacher where he has been and what he has done for the country (to run now for president) is a huge problem. It puts politicians ahead of teachers.“We spend our lifetimes building generations," Prof Wainaina said. Mr Owoko, who claimed he tried to run against Mr Kenyatta in the 2012 TNA nominations for the top seat, said he was best-placed for State House.  