With a turbulent history, especially the 2007 post-election violence, it is understandable that many Kenyans tend to look at the downside of situations and circumstances. But the truth is that we have had many more bright spots in the five decades of our independence. We should always expect, if not the finest, some progress. However, sometimes it takes an outsider to help us understand our situation much better. During a visit last month, UN Secretary General António Guterres said after meeting with President Uhuru Kenyatta at State House, Nairobi, that Kenya is a “symbol of achievement and opportunity”. He added: “Kenya is an example in all aspects that can be copied, not only on the African continent, but also around the world, proving that today, there are countries that are moving in order to make sure that the three pillars of UN activities can be fully met -- peace and security, sustainable inclusive development and human rights.” EMPTY PRAISE That was no empty praise, but the insight and judgment of a man who oversees the global condition and has access to international reports and indices. Kenya has for many years remained relatively stable in a volatile region that has known too much violence and bloodshed. But our role in the African Union mission in Somalia has contributed significantly to containing the terrorist threat from our northern border. We are deeply involved with the Somali Government, which needs help to build a functional national security force to promote peace and stability in their country and the region. Additionally, we are working with various parties in South Sudan to end the leadership conflict and ensure peace and prosperity. HUMAN DIGNITY This is because our future as East Africans is intertwined regardless of our nationality or ethnic backgrounds. Kenya is also a nation that has sought to establish an inclusive, equitable and just society that protects human dignity and rights. Some of the projects and development programmes undertaken over the last four years, include moving towards the 30 per cent target of women representation in all appointments to public organisations. VULNERABLE MEMBERS The country is also promoting democracy and the rule of law through the activities of 320 peace committees and other measures to protect the most vulnerable members of the society and enable them to access government development funds. These include the cash transfer programme for orphans and other vulnerable children. This is what UN boss Guterres saw and recognised in our nation and rightly commended. While these are past achievements, there is an opportunity for Kenyans to gain more at present and in future. ECONOMIC GROWTH The government has created the infrastructure to provide Kenyans with a chance of a better future. The creation of 800,000 new jobs a year, sustainable economic growth, greater Internet penetration and access to education and health are worthy goals. Kenya is a nation on the move. It is a country the rest of the world is starting to take note of, with its relations with the United States, China, India, France, the United Kingdom and many others  developing rapidly. These and several other nations are seeking to deepen their relationships with Kenya, thanks to its growing ‘Silicon Savannah’ status and its success story as a hub of invention and innovation. This been made possible because of the foundations that have been built for growth and development. The years ahead will be key to our becoming an upper middle-income nation, and not only a regional, but also a global symbol of achievement and opportunity. Kenya and its people deserve nothing less.  Ms Munuhe studies diplomacy and international relations at the University of Nairobi. faizahmunuhe@gmail.com  