President Uhuru Kenyatta on Saturday attended delegate conferences for Jubilee-friendly parties in Nairobi and sought their support in the August elections. The President made stops at the Maendeleo Chap Chap, Kanu, Narc Kenya and Economic Freedom Party (EFP) party meetings before proceeding to his Jubilee Party delegates conference where he will be endorsed as the presidential candidate. Speaking at the Maendeleo Chap Chap meeting, President Kenyatta hit at the opposition for only focusing on creating jobs for its leaders instead of addressing problems facing Kenyans. "Our opponents are focusing on how to create jobs for four people .They are not concerned about the welfare of Kenyan's,” said Kenyatta. He said his government would be inclusive and would bring on board every Kenyan. He then made a stop at the Kanu delegates conference where he was received by party leader Gideon Moi.   Mr Moi said Kanu will support President Kenyatta’s re-election bid. “Kanu is part of government and anybody thinking that we're out of government is mistaken,” said Mr Moi. The party formally endorsed President Kenyatta saying it will not field a candidate for the top job. The President said he is at home in Kanu as that is where he joined politics. “I am back to ask for your support so that we can work together. The foundation of Kanu is unity and I believe that by being united we will win in August. “I promise you that after winning in August we will all be in government,” he told the delegates.   At the Narc Kenya conference, delegates resolved to support President Kenyatta candidature in the August General Election. Party leader Martha Karua said the party has seen the great development projects by the government. “I have played in both teams and interacted with both the opposition team and the Jubilee government and we have now made our choice. “When I was in the opposition side, some of my supporters felt that we were in the wrong side and after consultations, we are backing both President Kenyatta and Mr Ruto,” she said. President Kenyatta said he is grateful to unit with Nark Kenya which like the Jubilee party believes in the fundamental rights of all Kenyans. The President also attended the EFP conference where he said he promised to have a curfew imposed in Mandera County lifted. "Its not right for Kenyans to be prevented from worship especially as we are a God fearing nation," he said. President Kenyatta is at Bomas of Kenya for the Jubilee Party delegates conference. Reports by Collins Omulo, Brian Moseti, Samwel Owino, Faith Nyamai and Dennis Odunga.   The two are expected to rally troops behind them.