Q. I am 29 and work for a medium-sized auditing firm. One of the top directors of a family hotel chain, who has been involved in some financial malpractices has been asking me to conceal this scandal in the final report. Being only a starter in the industry, this business is our main client. If I expose him, my company risks losing the contract with the hotel. What should I do to safeguard integrity and still keep our business?  This is a very difficult scenario to find yourself in especially at such young age and early on in your career. How you manage this will determine the future of your career, hence you must be very cautious. Ensure that all your communication with the director of the hotel are in writing as evidence in case this director denies ever having asked you to conceal the fraud when confronted. Your role is to conduct the audit in a professional manner and submit the report. Any other discussions by the client should be with the engagement partner for the audit. In all this, ensure that you act in accordance with the ethics of the profession. You are aware that the Institute of Certified Public Accountants of Kenya is very strict when complaints are made against auditors who have acted in collusion with company directors to conceal fraud or other malpractices. This can result in serious disciplinary actions, which would damage your reputation and your career progression. Inform the engagement partner in charge of the audit and let him/her know the findings and specifically ensure that the issue of the scandal is in the report, and is discussed. Inform them that one of the directors of the hotel has been asking you to conceal the scandal in the final report. This will demonstrate to the directors of your firm that you are a person of integrity ,and will also free you from the pressure you are  facing.  The professional responsibility lies with the engagement partner in charge of the audit. If they decide to conceal the fraud, then the firm other than you as an individual takes responsibility and any repercussions. In the event that they decide to expose the fraud then they lose the business, the decision will not be attributed to you. The sustainability of the audit firm depends on its credibility in the long term rather than its ability to retain a single fraudulent client in the short term.  Got feedback on this story? Email lifeandstyle@ke.nationmedia.com  