On a cold day in early November a Kenyan actor based in Hollywood collapsed while rehearsing on stage for a play and was pronounced dead by the first responders who tried to resuscitate him.On that fateful day, actor Owiso Odera was practicing for a new play that was to start the following week called Detroit 67. The play was cancelled after his demise.The late Owiso Odera was born in Khartoum, Sudan to the late philosopher Prof Henry Odera Oruka and Millicent Obaso.Though born in Sudan he grew up in Kenya and attended Visa Oshwal primary in Westlands, Nairobi. He later joined St Mary s school Nairobi finishing with the class of 1991.He then got a scholarship to study computer science at the prestigious Earlham College in Indiana USA. After working for some years in New York where he met the love of his life and later wife Nicole Comp, he later decided to move to California.He first settled in San Diego and went on to obtain a Master s degree in Fine Arts at the University Of California San Diego (UCSD).Owiso featured in films and series such as The Originals, Madame Secretary, Unforgettable, Three Rivers, The Thirst: Blood wars, Flash forward, Minority Report, The Good Wife, NCIS-Los Angeles, The Unit, Numb3rs, The Millers and Blue Bloods. His biggest showing was in the series The Originals where he played the role of Papa Tunde. Owiso was an accomplished and talented actor with an impressive list of theatre, television and film credits, Les Waters and Kevin E. Moore of Actors Theatre said in a statement. However, he was much more than just a colleague. Owiso was a dear friend to many and will be immensely missed by the performing arts communities all across the country. Opposition leader Raila Odinga also sent his condolences to the family saying that it was with great pain that he learnt of the death Mr Odera. On behalf of my family and the entire clan of Jaramogi Oginga Odinga, I wish to pass my deep condolences to the family of the late Prof Henry Odera Oruka, Mr Owiso s father for this painful loss, said Mr Odinga.He added that as a friend of the late Henry Odera Oruka, he watched young Owiso grow up, inspired by the ideals and public spirit of his late father. The young man who left us was a man of deep conviction and courage who faced challenges without trying to look for shortcuts. He was certainly destined for greater strides in his career in Hollywood. Owiso is survived by his wife Nicole, siblings Roney, Sheila, Sharon, Milly and Peter and mother Millicent Obaso. He was 43 years old. email print email print