The hunt for points in the 2017 Kenya Amateur Golf Championship (KAGC) series shifts to Kitale this weekend where the par 73 Kitale Club course hosts the Trans Nzoia Open.The event is the sixth leg of the KAGC series. A 54-hole strokeplay event, the KAGC also counts towards the World Amateur Ranking. This year s Trans Nzoia Open has attracted a field of 82 players drawn from various clubs in the country. Among those expected in Kitale though his name was missing in the draw is Vet Lab s Mike Kisia, who produced an impressive nine under par 135 to clinch the Winston Churchill Cup at Thika Sports Club 10 days ago. Also heading to the north Rift, are two other Vet Lab players Edwin Mudanyi - who came second in Thika - and Robinson Owiti. The event has also attracted other leading amateurs such as Railway s Alfred Nandwa and Samuel Njoroge, Limuru s John Karichu and Paul Muchangi and Royal Nairobi s Kenneth Bollo and Dennis Saikwa among others. I did not play well in Thika because of putting problem, but I hope to get my putting together in Kitale this weekend, said Nandwa. The first round draw is set for 7.30am Saturday, followed by the second round in the afternoon while third and final round will take place Sunday morning. At Kiambu Golf Club, a field of 190 players was drawn for the ninth edition of the Mountain Classic tournament, an event started and spearheaded by the Mountain Tigers namely Paul Kaumbutho, Martin Nyaga, Larry Njue, Martin Mutuma, David Nyaga and club chairman Fredrick Njagi. Currently, the Kiambu course is reported to be in great condition following the recent rains and the big field notwithstanding, some interesting scores are anticipated this weekend. Away in Kisumu, action continues with the CBA tournament this weekend at the Nyanza Golf Club course where a field of 100 players will be battling it out. In the ladies section of the national calendar, action will be at Windsor Golf Club where the par 72 course host the Ladies Open. Going for the top prizes include former Kenya Ladies Golf Union chairperson Lucie Maina, Golf Park s Agnes Nyakio, Mercy Nyanchama and Aisha Duba and Limuru s Caroline Wangari among many others. Meanwhile, action resume at the once popular Makuyu Golf Club in Muranga after almost three years. The nine-hole Makuyu course, which was once the home of the Armed Forces Golf Association, will host its first event after almost three years. The Sunday Carnival golf tournament set for Sunday has attracted a field of 68 players though the club officials are still accepting entries. email print email print Event is an International Test match between Kenya and Uganda.