Corruption remains a major problem worldwide despite actions taken to curtail it. Studies show that the vice comes with political, social, economic and environmental costs to societies. Many countries have come up with different measures to deal with graft. While some have managed to move a step further, a majority are struggling. The East African region is not any different. According to the East Africa Bribery (EABI) Index 2017 published by Transparency International chapters in East Africa, bribery is still rampant despite efforts to reform public institutions and educate citizens on the consequences of corruption. The Kenya Police Service was ranked the most bribery-prone institution with a score of 83, followed by the Judiciary and Land services at 44 and 41.7, respectively. Tax services (12.9) and Huduma Centre (10.7) were at the bottom of the list of the adversely mentioned institutions. BRIBERY The EABI is an annual survey that seeks to record bribery experiences of citizens while seeking public services. Since 2010, the survey has been carried out in Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania, Rwanda and Burundi. The public services surveyed include security services (the police), Judiciary, medical and health services, local government services, utilities (water and electricity), registry and licensing services (civil registration and business licensing), education, tax and lands. The police in Tanzania, Kenya and Uganda, the Judiciary in Uganda, and the police in Rwanda took the top five positions as the most bribery-prone institutions. The highest likelihood of encountering bribery was recorded in the police services across the region; 71 per cent of respondents in Tanzania, 69 per cent in Kenya, 67 per cent in Uganda and 29 per cent in Rwanda interacting with the police were asked (implicitly or explicitly) or offered to pay a bribe to access the services. JUDICIARY The study showed an increase in the size of bribe, with the largest in Kenya (189 per cent) in medical and health services, rising from Sh881 in 2014 to Sh2,542 this year. The highest size of bribe in Kenya was recorded in the Judiciary at Sh14,083 followed by Sh12,360 paid for tax services and Sh8,956 for lands services. The perceived level of corruption continues to increase; 83 per cent of the respondents described the current level of corruption in Kenya as high, compared to 81 per cent who held a similar view in 2014. Only 10 per cent described the level of corruption as medium with four per cent describing it as low. A majority of respondents in Kenya (62 per cent), felt that the government was not doing enough to fight corruption. CIVIC ACTION Some 55 per cent of those interviewed indicated that they had not taken any personal initiative in the fight against graft. Three per cent reported corruption or have openly spoken out against it. This calls for collective responsibility and civic-led action to curb the vice. The report recommends the need to strengthen the capacity of institutions of governance to deal with corruption. There is also the urgent need to prosecute those involved. Institutions should be encouraged to set up internal integrity management initiatives. These could include complaint resolution mechanisms for citizens to report any bribery incidents they encounter or service delivery charters outlining the services offered, the amount of time taken and fees charged. HUDUMA CENTRES Technology is an enabler of accountability. Institutions should consider digitisation of services to reduce service transaction time and minimise the human interface that facilitates bribery. According to the EABI 2017, Huduma Centres, which have deployed technology to manage customer service, recorded the least bribery incidents. If implemented, this will go a long way in helping institutions to fight corruption and improve services. Mr Kimeu is the executive director, Transparency International Kenya.  