Kenya Publishers Association held its 20th edition of the Nairobi International Book fair at Sarit Centre, Nairobi from September 27 to October 1, 2017. According to the chairman of the association Mr Lawrence Njagi, the exhibition is the best in Africa.  The event, which offers publishers an opportunity to sell their latest books as stakeholders interact with their favourite authors, also featured workshops and seminars on topical issues, book launches, children’s activities and presentation of literary awards, key among them, the Wahome Mutahi Literary Award.  I attended the exhibition and had objective interactions with over 70 local and international exhibitors. Comparing what the exhibition used to be 10 years ago and now, one doesn’t fail to appreciate the level of seriousness that publishers have accorded this event. Looking at what was on display and the number of guests who attended, it is evident that a number of publishers are now conscious of the power of corporate branding.  I noticed that some publishers did not put recognizable efforts in their corporate brands in tune with this year’s theme: ‘Unity in Books.’ Publishers such as Spotlight, Oxford and Moran, which were winners in various categories, however, clearly considered certain branding touch-points. For instance, author reputation should have been a key selling point by the exhibitors to inspire confidence of the readers. For example, if your book has been written by Wallah Bin Wallah, Wilson Sossion or Prof Ken Walibora, why couldn’t the exhibitors tell the buyers more about these authors and how unique their writing is? Such explanation was lacking. Readers often decide to buy a book if they are familiar with a certain author. Aspects like readability of books on display and packaging design were also carefully considered.  These touch points, which help inform the consumer of the value of the product, were critical to the judges’ decision in awarding the winners. Notable was the absence of social media pages in the various banners that were on display at the exhibition. Any credible business in the digital age must generate and disseminate information on their social media accounts the same way newspapers are doing.  That notwithstanding, as I moved from one stand to the other, I wondered why newspapers did not consider exhibiting together with publishers as an opportunity to grow readership for tomorrow. It is not in doubt that the only consistent platform of information after school is newspapers.  Even as statistics reveal that the newspaper readership platform is shifting from physical hard copies to various outlets, any opportunity to build the newspapers readership base by displaying to the young ones should not be ignored. I do not see why seasoned writers and editors cannot spare a day to explain to the readers how and why they write, considering that issues that threaten the newspaper industry also threaten the textbook industry.  For example, the directive by Education Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i to adopt the one textbook policy in primary and secondary schools was a subject of discussion at the publishers’ gala held at Pride Inn Hotel in Westlands. The directive, though retrogressive, is meant to ‘save the children and parents from many books’ even though the publishing industry was liberalised in the 1990s. In the unlikely event that this directive sees the light of day, job losses for families supported by the textbook publishing industry is imminent. On the other hand, advertising revenue for newspapers has significantly shrunk, partly because of the single advertising platform called MyGov, where all government adverts are published. The move has already deprived newspapers of millions of shillings in revenue and also led to massive job losses in various media houses. Not much has been reported by the media objectively on the risks posed by the single text book policy which was abolished years back.  That newspapers carry education issues, have various niche segments, print the publications and carry out all the editorial processes before they publish makes them publishers in every sense and they must begin to claim their space at the Kenya Publishers Association.  Newspapers and publishers must begin to forge a common agenda to protect this industry, which risks slipping back to the draconian days of single textbooks and censored writings in blatant violation of Articles 33, 34 and 35 of the Constitution that touch on freedom of expression, freedom of the media and access to information respectively. The Association of Kenya Publishers and media owners must begin to read and act from the same script for a better publishing environment.   AG Awino is a communications expert based in western Kenya. mhaririwakiswahili@gmail.com 
 