Substitute Geoffrey Kataka hit the winner as Posta Rangers edged out Zoo Kericho 1-0 in a SportPesa Premier League encounter staged at Ruaraka grounds on Monday. Kataka had barely lasted for ten minutes after replacing John Nairuka, before tapping home Simon Mbugua’s cross off a tenacious move from the centre. The result ended Zoo’s four match unbeaten streak and saw Posta jump to fifth position with 46 points, nine ahead of Zoo Kericho with four matches to go this season. “It’s heartbreaking to lose in the dying moments after working hard entirely. We had our chances in the first five minutes had we scored then it could have been a different story. We have to brace ourselves for the next match because we need points,” said a frustrated Zoo coach Sammy Okoth. Posta Rangers assistant coach George Maina, standing in for the suspended Sammy Omollo, termed the win a reward of hard work and persistence. “We came with a winning mentality and the players exhibited it. We utilised our crucial moment with the goal but it’s because we were tactical with our substitution. We’ve our target of finishing in a better positions and yes, we are up for the task,” he said. Maina made four changes to the team that beat AFC Leopards 2-0 in Narok a fortnight ago. Jerry Santo led the team in the absence of injured Joackins Atudo, with Simon Mbugua, Joseph Nyagah and Kennedy Otieno starting. Zoo went for an early break pulling strings in the opening ten minutes. Mike Madoya and Nicholas Kipkirui linked up to test goalkeeper Patrick Matasi in vain. Otieno thought he had scored his sixth goal of the season in the 19th minute, but his header off Luke Ochieng’s throw in was ruled for offside by referee Moses Simiyu. Titus Achesa and Nyagah stormed down the left flank only for the latter’s attempted lob to be cleared off the line by Isaac Kipyegon at the half hour mark. John Nairuka troubled Zoo goalkeeper Vincent Misikhu with his terrific shot in the 33rd minute. Misikhu was forced to a fingertip save a minute later emanating from a fierce free kick from the former Thika United and Ulinzi Stars man. Mbugua’s long pass at the hour mark hit the cross bar as Zoo survived. Gerson Likono was introduced in place of Otieno in the 65th minute as Posta looked to chase down the opponent from the right flank. Cometh the hour cometh the minute, with four minutes added on, Zoo deployed wasting theatrics as the hosts kept believing. It took Jerry Santo to release Mbugua who broke on the right wing to release a cut back that Kataka connected home. Posta, who beat the side by a similar score line in the first leg, next visit Western Stima while Zoo host Thika United. 
 