I have never met Dennis Oliech personally, but I have been to Mama Oliech’s and enjoyed the sumptuous fish his mum cooks. Mark Zuckerberg, during his visit to Kenya recently took time to visit Mama Oliech to eat fish. Thanks to Dennis Oliech, Mary, his mum is still alive to whet our appetite with her fish from lake Victoria. Last week, a picture posted by Jacob “Ghost” Mulee of him and Oliech became a subject of debate, many hitting on Oliech saying he is broke. This is what I posted on my Facebook timeline. “On Dennis Oliech. I have seen all the funny comments about the man being broke and all that. “Who remembers the day Dennis the Menace having scored two goals for Harambee Stars against Zimbabwe, then goalkeeper Arnold Origi (cousin to Divorck Origi) broke his leg and Oliech wore Origi’s uniform, sat in goal for the last five minutes making serious saves? “ Who remembers Oliech taking his cancer struck mother to France for treatment using some Sh123 million Who remembers the day the government cried broke and Oliech paid the return air tickets and accommodation for the 32-member team to play out of the country? “Who remembers that Qatar offered Oliech Sh200 million to change citizenship but Dess said his loyalty is to the Kenyan flag? “Meanwhile, go eat fish at Mama Oliech’s place and while at it remember that he is the Brand Ambassador for Mastercard and Betway. Chill” I repeat here again “chill”. Oliech, single-handed, took Kenya to the Africa Cup of Nations in 2004 when he top scored in the qualifiers. He was key to Kenya registering its first ever win in the Afcon, yet socialites and hoodlums have the audacity to make him a subject of mockery on social media. One thing I would have loved to see, which probably I will never get the chance to, is to watch Dennis Oliech play for Gor Mahia. I think this is the only achievement Oliech lacks in his gallery, donning the famous green jersey. But then again, I thank the Oliech family for producing the great Steve Okumu (may he rest in peace), Andrew Oyombe a.k.a Apache and Ken Oliech - they all played for the greatest club in East and Central Africa: Gor Mahia. It therefore pains when a bunch of idlers, who spend their day on social media, decide to make Oliech their subject to gain some hits on their wall. I can bet my last dollar, very few of those who have hit at Oliech have never done anything for their parents, but Wuod Mary has spent his fortune to have his mother alive. So, when you happen to go for lunch at Mama Oliech’s remember you are still enjoying her fish because of Dennis Oliech. Thank You Denno, you owe nobody an apology. 
  
Pardon me, mediocre is an understatement. Actually, this season has been a disaster. 