Coast security forces will use helicopters for air patrol during the presidential repeat election. Regional police bosses led by Larry Kieng said police will conduct aerial patrols to monitor the situation during the poll. He warned members of the Mombasa Republican Council against disrupting the crucial exercise. Mr Kieng said they received intelligence about people with ill motives in Bongwe Village in Kwale County. "Anyone who is threatening voters will be dealt with ruthlessly. We will arrest them," he said. AL-SHABAAB He said police had security hitches in Bongwe, a village perceived to be infiltrated by suspected Al-Shabaab remnants, returnees and MRC members. However, Mr Kieng said police have put in place mechanisms to deal with anyone disrupting the poll. He urged Kwale residents to maintain peace. "Police are patrolling the area and others which we deemed insecure. We have mapped out places we suspect to be insecure and deployed enough police. We will respond promptly to any eventuality using the helicopters," he said. Mr Kieng also warned residents against demonstrating without police notification. PROTESTS "We have not received any notification for protests. We have enough machineries to deal with you," said Mr Kieng. Speaking during security patrol in Jomvu Sub County, Mr Kieng said a contingent of security personnel have been deployed in all polling stations to heighten security. "Every polling station has received their voting materials. We are to ensure all voting centres are secured. All officers have been deployed to man polling stations, voting materials, voters and election officials," said Mr Kieng. He urged voters to turn out and exercise their democratic right. VOTERS' RIGHTS Mr Kieng said police will deal with anyone who will disrupt the poll and those hell-bent in infringing on other voters’ rights. "All centres will have enough officers. If you try anything you will face the wrath. Bangladesh is very secure," he said. Mr Kieng said they have deployed sufficient police officers in the 26 constituencies at the Coast region. "We have 1,807 polling stations and enough officers covering the areas. After voting we will continue to secure polling stations until they finish tallying," he said. He said voting materials have arrived in Mombasa, Lamu, Kilifi, Kwale and Taita Taveta counties.  