The Africa Nouveau Festival - 2017 officially unveiled the performers for the upcoming event slated for November 10 to 12, at Small World Country Club in Athi River. The festival will have more than 20 music acts drawn from across Africa and the UK to will light up its live music stage. The musical artistes will include funky Nigerian electro-pop soul singer Temi Doll Face, the multi-faceted Muthoni the Drummer Queen (Kenya), artist and Podcast host Eugene Gecaga, Sauti Academy’s Njerae (Kenya), Shukid (Kenya), Basthma (Kenya), Emma Cheruto (Kenya), 7th Culture, PHY(Kenya), Wanja Wahoro (Kenya), Tunji (Kenya), Sichangi (Kenya), Ayrosh (Kenya) and Nairobi Nu Wave favourites: EA Wave (Kenya), Taio (Kenya) and Steph Kapela (Kenya). All the artistes are set to perform at the two days and two-night event themed ‘Afrobubblegum’— a world full of fun, fierce and fantastical music, film and fashion, among other art forms. The theme is derived from a growing consciousness among African creatives that their output need not be about hunger, starvation, AIDS, war and other themes often expected from African creative work. African creatives are interested in creating works free from prejudice and expectation, with the driving force being personal expression and global connection. FIRST EDITION The first edition drew Nairobi's fashionable and trendy crowds, as well as lovers of lifestyle and arts. The festival is again trying to be a platform for discovering some of the most innovative Africans who are creating new styles of music and sounds influencing Africa and the African Diaspora. It will also showcase innovative new art by East African and British talent, thanks to its partnership with the British Council's East Africa Arts program. The arts program creates connections between creatives from Ethiopia, Kenya, Rwanda, South Sudan, Sudan, Tanzania, Uganda and the UK, and will ensure that artists united at the festival make and showcase new art to audiences. The artists will also share skills and forge networks between the creative sectors of the UK and East Africa. The artists will be having a skills exchange, collaboration and networking meeting on November 8 in preparation for the main event. The myriad of experiences to look forward to include music on the live music stage and an after-hours DJ stage that will present DJ Suraj, DJ Marfox (Portugal), DJ Spilulu (Congo) and Electrafrique represented by DJ Moma and DJ Cortega. FILM STAGE A film stage will feature filmmakers from across Africa, a style bazaar will feature fashion, accessories and homeware designer products, a wellness zone will feature Zumba and yoga classes and wholesome organic refreshments. There will also be a renew and recharge zone where revellers will create energy to charge phones by cycling and also a fully serviced camping experience complete with yummy food and drinks stalls.  Two fresh music albums will also be launched at the festival. They are Muthoni the Drummer Queen’s anticipated album SHE which features singles “Kenyan Message” and “Million Voice”, and the album PROJECT GREATNESS by Sichangi. Both the artistes will exclusively perform never-before-released songs off their albums at Africa Nouveau. This will be the festival’s first encounter away from Nairobi and attendees for the whole weekend have the choice of either renting tents by pre-booking them for the nights spent, or pitching their own tents there at a fee.  
  
The festival will have more than 20 music acts drawn from across Africa and the UK 