Lamu Governor Fahim Twaha has been dealt a blow after the county assembly rejected two people he nominated to his Cabinet. The assembly committee that vetted the nominees however endorsed four of them. Florence Ndung’u who was nominated to head the Agriculture and Water Development docket and Mr Dismas Tolle Mwasambu who was appointed to head the Trade, Tourism and Industrialization docket were rejected. A report of the Lamu County Assembly Committee on Appointments of the vetting of the CECs members nominees was tabled in the House on Wednesday by Leader of Majority and Mkomani ward MCA Yahya Ahmed Shee. VETTING “On behalf of the committee on appointment, I hereby present the committee’s report on the nominees for appointment as members of the county executive committee. In conducting the vetting process, the committee on appointments examined the nominees against the following criteria, amongst others, in accordance with the Public Appointments (County Assemblies Approval) Act of 2017 which included academic qualifications, employment record, professional affiliations, potential conflict of interest, knowledge of the relevant subject, overall suitability for the position, tax compliance and integrity,” said Mr Yahya. The report indicates that Mr Mwasambu was rejected on technical grounds while Ms Florence was rejected on integrity issues. SWON IN “Once the issue is settled to the satisfaction of the committee, the nominees can be presented to the assembly for consideration and approval,” stated the report which was adopted by the assembly. Those approved include Tana River County Secretary Mr Abdu Godana Dae who will head the Fisheries, Livestock and Cooperative Development docket, Governor Fahim Twaha’s running mate in the 2013 General Elections, Mr Raphael Munyua who will take the Health Services, Environment and Sanitation docket, former Lamu Town Clerk Mr Ahmed Hemed who will head the Finance and Economic Planning docket and Ms Fahima Araphat who will head the Lands, Physical Planning and Infrastructure Development. Ms Fahima worked as the Lamu County Shella Ward Administrator. The four will be sworn-in at the Mokowe County Headquarters Thursday at noon.  