Kabras Sugar are the new National Sevens Series championships. The western Kenya sugar millers claimed their maiden Series when they touched down three tries and two conversion to edge out Kenyatta University’s Blak Blad 19-7 in the play-off for third place at Dala Sevens on Sunday. Their bronze medal victory at Dala Sevens, the last event of the Series, saw Kabras Sugar, who are on their fourth season since formation, claim the Series top honours with 102 points. The results from the Dala Sevens final between defending champions Homeboyz and Kenya Commercial Bank will not have any change. Victory for Homeboyz, who were the Series defending champions, will bring their tally to 100 points, while a win for KCB will have them wrapping up the season with 89 points. It was joy for Kabras Sugar head coach Charles Cardovillis who only took over the team in May this year. Kabras lunched their Series quest at Driftwood Sevens, where they finished fifth, before improving to fourth at Kabeberi Sevens.  Kabras again settled fifth at Prinsloo Sevens before rolling to victories at Sepetuka and Christie Sevens respectively, before winning bronze at Dala Sevens, an improvement from last year where they finished fourth. Kabras becomes the only other team from Nairobi besides Nakuru to win the Series. Nakuru won the Series in 2015.  Cardovillis had guided the team from the Enterprise Cup semi-final, where they beat Impala Saracens 16-15, before losing to KCB 27-23 in a thrilling final. Champions Kabras had lost the Kenya Cup title to KCB 36-8 in the final. Tries from Kenya Sevens player Dan Sikuta, Felix Ayaneg and Fidel Oloo were enough to propel Kabras Sugar, the 2016 Kenya Cup champions, to victory at the Mamboleo show grounds Kisumu. The sugarmen took the lead through Oloo’s converted try but Blak Blad were awarded a penalty try to tie scores in the second half. Sikuta returned from the sin-bin to score as his team pull away 12-7. Ayange went over to secure the lead for Kabras and the Series title. Impala Saracens beat Western Bulls 17-12 to finish fifth overall at Dala Sevens as Catholic Monks defeated Daystar 21-7 to claim the Challenge Trophy.  In the semis, Kabras lost 12-5 to KCB, who are the Prinsloo Sevens champions while Driftwood champions Homeboyz beat Blak Blad 22-7. In the Cup quarters, Kabras 26 crushed Western Bulls 26-0, KCB whacked Webuye 36-0, Homeboyz edged out Makueni 15-5 while Blak Blad stunned Impala 17-10. 
 