Who will win the 2017 Nobel Literature Prize, after Bob Dylan last year? The Swedish Academy likes to stun the world with its pick, but, wary of its reputation, it is seen going with a more traditional choice this year. The overall buzz, from literary circles to fortune tellers, is that the 18 Academy members in Stockholm will pick a laureate most people agree is Nobel-worthy. Names that repeatedly appear in the Nobel speculation and are mentioned this year as well are Kenya's Ngugi wa Thiong'o, Syrian poet Adonis, Israel's Amos Oz and Don DeLillo of the United States. The Swedish Academy will end the suspense and announce its pick on Thursday at 1:00 pm (1100 GMT). CLOAK-AND-DAGGER SECRECY Last year's choice of US singer songwriter Bob Dylan - who didn't comment on his win until weeks later and who snubbed the formal prize ceremony in Stockholm - created such a stir that the Academy is likely to choose a more orthodox laureate, suggested Bjorn Wiman, cultural editor at Swedish paper of reference Dagens Nyheter. "What happened last year was really unusual. This year I think it'll be a male novelist or essayist with roots in Europe. I think it's going to be the exact opposite of Bob Dylan," Wiman said. He thinks Antonio Lobo Antunes of Portugal and Albania's Ismail Kadare have a good chance. "Everyone will think 'Ah, of course they deserve the prize', and there'll be no objection." The prestigious distinction could also be bestowed upon Canada's Margaret Atwood, whose novel "The Handmaid's Tale" was recently made into a well-received television series, or Ngugi wa Thiong'o, a favourite of online betting sites. Or it could go to a complete unknown. In line with the last will and testament of Alfred Nobel, the inventor of dynamite who used his vast fortune to create the prizes, "it has to be someone who deals with universal questions, someone who makes us reflect about all of us," explained publisher Elisabeth Grate. WESTERN DOMINATION From 1901 to 1985 only eight laureates were chosen from outside Europe and the United States.India has only one laureate in Rabindranath Tagore in 1913, as does the Arab world with Egypt's Naguib Mahfouz receiving the award in 1988.One reason may be that it was previously difficult for the Nobel juries to judge non-European literature as translations were rare and information less accessible before the Internet. In 1986 Nigeria's Wole Soyinka became the first African to be recognised. The first Chinese author was Gao Xingjian in 2000 and in 2006 Orhan Pamuk became the first Turkish writer on the list. ONLY 14 WOMEN  Another aspect not to be overlooked is gender. Of the 113 laureates honoured since Frenchman Sully Prudhomme won in 1901, only 14 have been women. Wiman is however not convinced that has any bearing on the Academy, recalling its claim that it does not take gender or nationality into consideration. "I think it will be a man in his 70s or 80s who has written heavy novels," predicts Clemens Poellinger.At the Hedengrens bookstore in central Stockholm, owner Nicklas Bjorkholm has already set up a wall with books by possible winners, including Spain's Javier Marias, Americans Joan Didion and Don DeLillo, Poland's Olga Tokarczuk and David Grossmann of Israel. His personal favourite for the prize is Korean poet Ko Un because, he insists, "the time has come for a non-anglophone and an Asian." Each critic may have their favourite, but they're usually off the mark. So why not see what's written in the cards? Zanna, a Tarot card reader consulted by AFP, seems to think it's Yan Lianke's year. "So many pieces come together. He gets such unbelievably good cards, it feels like a yes," she exclaimed. RECENT WINNERS OF THE NOBEL LITERATURE PRIZE Here is a list of the 15 most recent winners of the Nobel Literature Prize, with this year's laureate to be announced on Thursday: 2016: Bob Dylan (US)2015: Svetlana Alexievich (Belarus)2014: Patrick Modiano (France)2013: Alice Munro (Canada)2012: Mo Yan (China)2011: Tomas Transtromer (Sweden)2010: Mario Vargas Llosa (Peru)2009: Herta Mueller (Germany)2008: Jean-Marie Gustave Le Clezio (France)2007: Doris Lessing (Britain)2006: Orhan Pamuk (Turkey)2005: Harold Pinter (Britain)2004: Elfriede Jelinek (Austria)2003: J.M. Coetzee (South Africa)2002: Imre Kertesz (Hungary) 
 