It is just eight days to the fresh presidential election, but the key politicians continue with reckless actions and provocative statements that create fear instead of easing tension and giving voters the confidence to prepare for it. Weeks of continued street protests by the National Super Alliance to push for electoral reforms have put the country under siege. Yet, despite this, the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission has met some of the opposition demands within extremely difficult circumstances and acute time constraints. VIOLENCELast week, the government banned demonstrations in the central business districts of Nairobi, Mombasa and Kisumu, because they had become disruptive and chaotic. But the protests have persisted and as widely feared, claiming lives and causing injuries and loss of property. The confrontations between the protesters and police, who have resorted to brutal force in quelling the riots, spark violence and this is bad for the government. CAMPAIGNFor its part, the Jubilee Party is pushing on with campaigns for the re-election of President Uhuru Kenyatta, whose August 8 victory was quashed by the Supreme Court on the grounds that it was marred by illegalities and irregularities. Since then, the President has been on the ground campaigning. President Kenyatta and Nasa’s Raila Odinga just have to acknowledge that we are in deep trouble, and, for that matter, should not continue digging in with their hard-line positions. An election is a process that engenders a whole gamut of activities – from voter registration to nominations, campaigns, voting, vote counting, tallying and the declaration of results. Our current circumstances do not constitute what is conducive for this. TRUCEBut we believe these two people at the centre of the standoff – President Kenyatta and Mr Odinga – can help ease the tension. The calls for a truce and dialogue are not about forcing them to form a coalition government. Far from it, and in any case, that would be unconstitutional. It is, indeed, about creating a genial environment for the election. It is about sending the right signal and giving confidence to Kenyans to participate in the poll and exercise their right of choosing their leader.  