Back in the day when we only had only one television station in Kenya, there was one person whose name was synonymous with the weather forecast, Nguatah Francis. His forecasts would determine whether one considered carrying a brolly the next day or not. During European Tour events, a weatherman is always present to help in planning especially if there is need for suspension of play due to inclement weather. Recently at an event in Switzerland, the European Tour had invited an American weatherman to help with the weather forecast. On the first day of the tournament, he assured everyone that the weather would be sunny. Just before the tournament started, the Chief Referee at the tournament called the weatherman and told him that he had been informed by a local weatherman that there would be a severe storm followed by frost coming from the west at about 12.45pm. “He is wrong! We shall definitely have clear skies all day” insisted the weatherman. A few minutes later, the Chief Referee called the American weatherman and again told him that he had heard it from more reliable sources that there would be a severe storm followed by frost coming from west at exactly 12.45pm. This time the weatherman started getting hot under the collar but he did not let the anger show. He double-checked and even consulted just to ensure that he wasn’t wrong. He called the Chief Referee back and assured him that the information was false.  When the Chief Referee called a third time insisting that he was now very sure that there was going to be a severe storm followed by frost at exactly 12.45pm, the weatherman was furious. One of the other referees seeing that the poor weatherman was developing a fit of vapours, took pity on him and told to look at the draw at 12.45pm. On the draw were Christian Cevaer, Graeme Storm and David Frost. This week, the journey of the European Challenge Tour that started at the Barclays Kenya Open earlier this year, comes to an end. The penultimate European Challenge Tour event, Ras Al Khaimah Golf Challenge is taking place in the United Arab Emirates. There will definitely be no rain predicted for this tournament. Just sunshine throughout.  The other thing that we can predict, with some certainty, is that the top 45 players will get a chance to play in Oman next week and that the top 15 will get their main European Tour cards. As I write this article, Jurrian Van Der Vaart, a man who teed it up at the this year’s Barclays Kenya Open on Thursday but did not score well enough to take part at the weekend, is leading. There are, however, some peculiar challenges that the players will be facing this week at the Al Hamra Golf Club. Beyond the rough, there is a lot of sand. Not bunkers, desert sand. There are also cart paths and adjacent areas that are covered in pebbles. There is no major problem with the desert sand as it is considered part of the golf course… an area referred to as “through the green”. Many players will find themselves in this sand after wayward shots. The sand is not in bunker therefore the players may ground their clubs and even remove loose impediments.  The cart paths however pose a challenge. The players are entitled to relief when their ball ends up on one. The problem though may be in determining the nearest point of relief. The nearest point of relief may not be the ‘nicest’.  The best procedure to follow under such circumstances is for one to identify the nearest point of relief before picking up their ball.  If the nearest point of relief is not favourable, it may be prudent for the golfer to play from the cart path. If say the nearest point of relief is in a thick bush, or if the lie will be worse, then it may not be prudent to take the relief.  A number of golfers are quick to pick their balls from such situations before assessing the next move.  Should the player then decide not to proceed with the relief after picking their ball in such circumstances, then they would earn themselves a one-stroke penalty if they chose to replace the ball in the original position.  Before we start ranting and raving for not getting a good area to take relief, we should weigh our options and only pick up our ball from an area where we deserve relief after we have determined that we will be happy with the nearest point of relief. 
 