Hawkers will from now on operate within Nairobi City centre from 2pm, Governor Mike Sonko has said. In a report he unveiled Tuesday on how to deal with the problem of hawking in the city centre, Mr Sonko highlights both short-term and long-term measures his administration will take to regulate the growing number of vendors. The number of hawkers stands at over 10,000 this year. RULESThis comes at a time when the county boss is under a lot of pressure to transform the city, whose standards have deteriorated due to hawking, traffic jams, street children and garbage. “To ensure a harmonious relationship between the city county and the hawkers, there will be no hawking in front of shops before 2pm, no hawking on both sides of the road. "The paths are available for pedestrians and no hawking beyond Tom Mboya Street,” Mr Sonko said. COUNTY ASKARISThe county, through two committees that have been set up, will implement the reforms in three phases. One of the teams comprises eight executive members. The other is composed of 20 members representing each street. Mr Sonko said the hawkers will not be harassed by city askaris as the inspectorate had been ordered not to extort cash from them. REGISTRATIONThe moving of hawkers to designated areas will start immediately, with the committee assigned the task given a month to implement the orders. After that, anyone who disobeys the regulations would be charged in court. “To reduce conflicts, the city askaris should provide proof. They should take videos and photos,” the governor said. Mr Sonko said the county government plans to register all hawkers and have the records computerised for ease of identification. LICENCE FEEMr Sonko said only hawkers from Nairobi would be registered, with voters’ cards used for identification to lock out those from other regions. He said his administration plans to provide access roads to the hawkers’ stalls. With all the required amenities, the hawkers will be required to pay a licence fee of Sh2,000 a year.   City Hall consolidated all business-related licenses into one.