Our country enters a critical political phase following the determination of the outcome of the rerun presidential election held last Thursday. President Uhuru Kenyatta was predictably declared the winner in the race boycotted by his main challenger, Nasa’s Raila Odinga. The country has gone through tempestuous moments. First were the divisive campaigns for the August 8 General Election. And violence broke out in some areas when President Kenyatta was declared the victor. MASS PROTESTSSecond, and quite profoundly, the result was challenged in the Supreme Court, which nullified the election on account of “irregularities and illegalities”. It then directed a repeat election in 60 days, which, unfortunately, was boycotted by Mr Odinga and running mate Kalonzo Musyoka. Matters were made worse by mass protests, which led to several deaths and injuries. But this is now behind us. Unless the results are again challenged and nullified, President Kenyatta has the constitutional mandate to lead the country for the next five years. RECONCILIATION Even so, he is acutely aware that his legitimacy has been grossly circumscribed by the low voter turnout — 38.84 per cent. Neither can the elections be said to have passed the threshold of fairness, given the hostility experienced in some areas and murmurs of malpractices. Moving forward, President Kenyatta must prioritise national healing and reconciliation. He must reach out to Mr Odinga for a discussion to chart the best political path for the nation. INCLUSIVITY There is a need for an inclusive system that reflects the face of the nation. The administration must put all its energy in resuscitating a tanking economy. More crucially, the country must avoid violence. The National Super Alliance, which has been rooting for civil disobedience, must rethink its strategy. VIOLENCEIt is not tenable to continue with street protests at a time the nation is bleeding and hurting. Instead, it should pursue legal means to push its agenda. The months of anxiety, violence and stagnation must now come to an end. The rival leaders must end brinkmanship and intransigence and give dialogue a chance.  