Governors in western have been asked to turn the region into the new hub for dairy farming. Livestock specialists meeting recently in Kisumu noted the region has good climate and spacious land for cattle-keeping, but is held back by low technical knowhow on how to sustain quality feeds. Most of the farmers in the region have about an acre each, and with the consistent rainfall in two seasons, the region can be a dairy hub. However, the livestock experts noted that what is pulling farmers down was lack of knowledge in feeds and poor extensions services in dairy management. “Over 70 per cent of feeds comprise of forage. Livestock productivity is limited by inadequate and high cost feeds,” said Kenya Agriculture Value Chain Enterprise technical director Joyce Mutua. Annual fodder deficit across the country is put at Sh900 million. The meeting urged county governments to develop appropriate regulations to guide the fodder value chains. “The shortage in feeds results to poor animal body condition, low milk production, low fertility and vulnerability to diseases,” said Mutua. “Fodder production and conservation is an appropriate intervention towards normalising seasonal milk production and improving nutrition,” she added. East Africa Semen and Embryo Transfer Association chairman Joash Odhiambo said farmers have the option of increasing dairy herds or step up production per cow. “Farmers need to take advantage of increased access to quality artificial insemination service to increase conception rate,” said Dr Odhiambo, adding that farmers can also embrace technologies like embryo transfer. Prevalence of animal disease threatens the regions dairy sector. The major infectious diseases were identified as East Coast Fever, trypanosomiasis, parasite infestation and udder infections like mastitis. 
  
When Simion ole Poror told his family and relatives in 2001 that he was going to sell his 200 cows and goats to buy three exotic dairy cows, many of them thought he was out of his senses. 