The high octane political campaigns have masked a ravaging humanitarian crisis. Some 3.4 million Kenyans are facing starvation due to prolonged drought. And this could be a conservative figure, as it largely captures the drought-prone regions yet even the high potential areas are affected. LIVESTOCKOfficial statistics show that at least 19 counties are affected. Crops have failed and hundreds livestock have been lost. Except for a few months, it has been a particularly bad year as rains failed in many parts of the country. Then came the fall armyworms that invaded many counties and caused massive devastation of crops. ELECTIONSBut the tragedy is that this year has been dominated by elections and the government has not directed much attention to agriculture. In fact, it is cutting on expenditures as it mobilises resources to pay for the repeat presidential election due in two weeks. And this is the folly of our politics. Invariably, it is the fulcrum around which national issues revolve and in this context, serious national issues easily get lost when politics is at play. IMPORTED MAIZE None of the political players has taken time to reflect on the food situation in the country and determine what should be done to feed the starving millions. Famine started late last year and worsened early in the year, forcing the government to intervene by importing maize and selling the maize meal at subsidised prices. Unfortunately, the government has signalled its intention to stop the subsidy; yet here we are in the throes of another long spell of hunger. FOOD SECURITYThe food crisis, however, is never unpredicted. The weather pattern and subsequent drought cycles are known. Strategies and plans for food security are well-drawn up; but the problem has always been execution. For example, the grand irrigation projects to increase food productivity have all but floundered. Worse, during periods of bounty, a lot of food is lost post-harvest due to poor storage, transportation and marketing. For now, the immediate challenge is to feed the starving Kenyans and contain the devastating famine. But we need a long-term plan to end cyclical famine.  