BRISBANE Australia withstood a furious late charge to upset New Zealand 23-18 in a pulsating Bledisloe Cup match on Saturday, piercing a fresh hole in the world champions' aura of invincibility.  Reece Hodge's monster, 53-metre penalty just before the final whistle sealed victory for the Wallabies, who celebrated just their second win in 19 games against their exalted neighbours. After trailing by one point at half-time, Australia fought back to claim a physical victory over the All Blacks, scoring three tries to two in a high-quality match. New Zealand, who had already retained the Bledisloe Cup after winning the opening two games during the Rugby Championship, dominated early and seemed certain to make it a clean sweep in Brisbane. But the Wallabies, wearing a specially designed jersey to honour Australia's indigenous players, dug deep in the second half to take the lead before holding off the visitors' trademark late surge. "At half-time we said this game is going to come down to the last few minutes," Australian coach Michael Cheika said. "You're not going to defeat the world champions with 20 minutes to go — it just doesn't happen. "We had some setbacks before that, but we also made some key plays." The Wallabies had come agonisingly close to ending their run of defeats against New Zealand when they conceded a late converted try to lose 35-29 in Dunedin in August. But they stood firm to hand a second defeat of the season to the All Blacks, who will be going for their third straight World Cup title in two years' time in Japan. Cheika said he wasn't getting carried away with the win. "I've always got it in the back of my mind is our duty is to bring back the trophy, which we haven't done," he said. "As enjoyable as the win was, the disappointment of not winning the cup still resonates with me." Although New Zealand have retained their Rugby Championship and Bledisloe Cup titles this year, they also drew their three-Test series with the British and Irish Lions and haven't exerted the same dominance of recent years. As well as their last-gasp win over Australia in August, they trailed Argentina in the second half in New Plymouth and beat South Africa by a single point this month in Cape Town. "They deserved the win," All Blacks coach Steve Hansen conceded. "They worked hard and put us under pressure as well. "Hopefully they kick on and have a great northern tour." FIRST BLOW Slippery conditions in Brisbane meant both sides made plenty of errors, particularly early in the match. The home side were put under huge pressure early on as the visitors controlled the match with some superb tactical kicking. However, it was the Wallabies who struck first when New Zealand flyhalf Lima Sopoaga had the ball knocked from his grasp straight into the arms of Australian winger Hodge, who raced 70 metres to score under the posts. The All Blacks hit back 15 minutes into the first half when an unmarked Waisake Naholo crossed in the corner. Sopoaga converted from out wide to level the scores, then put the All Blacks ahead 10-7 with a 46-metre penalty. The New Zealand flyhalf, starting in place of the injured Beauden Barrett, kicked his second penalty when the otherwise outstanding Wallabies flanker Jack Dempsey was caught offside in front of the posts. The All Blacks continued to look the more dangerous, but right on half-time Australia finally enjoyed some possession in the New Zealand 22 and fullback Israel Folau ghosted through the defence to score his seventh try in nine Test matches in Brisbane. Bernard Foley missed the conversion as the visitors went into the break 13-12 up, and he also miscued a penalty attempt 10 minutes into the second half from 38 metres on the left. But six minutes later, Australian captain Michael Hooper turned down an easier penalty attempt and opted to kick for touch. The Wallabies spun the ball wide after a rolling maul sucked in the New Zealand defenders and Marika Koroibete crossed in the corner. Foley couldn't convert but the Wallabies were well on top and Hodge extended their lead to 20-13 with a penalty from almost 40 metres out with 15 minutes remaining. But the All Blacks came storming back and after a superb Sonny Bill Williams offload, Reiko Ioane crossed out wide to make it 20-18 with nine minutes remaining. However, there was to be no last hurrah for the All Blacks this time around as Hodge thumped his late, long penalty over the sticks to seal victory. RESULT AND STATS Australia 23 New Zealand 18 (H-t: 12-13) Scorers Australia - Tries: Reece Hodge, Israel Folau, Marika Koroibete. Conversion: Bernard Foley. Penalty: Hodge(2). New Zealand - Tries: Waisake Naholo, Rieko Ioane. Conversion: Lima Sopoaga. Penalties: Sopoaga (2). Teams Australia (15-1): Israel Folau; Marika Koroibete, Tevita Kuridrani, Kurtley Beale, Reece Hodge; Bernard Foley, Will Genia; Sean McMahon, Michael Hooper, Jack Dempsey; Adam Coleman, Rob Simmons; Sekope Kepu, Tatafu Polota-Nau, Scott Sio. Replacements: Stephen Moore, Tom Robertson, Allan Alaalatoa, Lukhan Tui, Ned Hanigan, Nick Phipps, Samu Kerevi, Henry Speight. New Zealand (15-10: Damian McKenzie; Waisake Naholo, Ryan Crotty, Sonny Bill Williams, Rieko Ioane; Lima Sopoaga, Aaron Smith; Kieran Read (capt), Sam Cane, Liam Squire; Scott Barrett, Sam Whitelock; Nepo Laulala, Dane Coles, Kane Hames. Replacements: Codie Taylor, Wyatt Crockett, Ofa Tu'ungafasi, Patrick Tuipulotu, Matt Todd, TJ Perenara, Anton Lienert-Brown, David Havili. Referee: Wayne Barnes (ENG) 
 