Football Kenya Federation (FKF) President Nick Mwendwa and National Executive Committee (NEC) members could rule for a total 12 years should they be re-elected in accordance with the proposed new constitution set for adoption at this year’s Annual General Meeting (AGM) in Mombasa on November 18. Listed as agenda 14(1) in the fifth AGM, the new FKF rule book shared among the members and in Nation Sports' possession, in article 36 (e) states, “the term of office of the President and the NEC members is for four years,” and adds “They may be re-elected for a further two (2) terms of office provided that a member contesting for any position other than the one previously held, shall be eligible to contest for that position as it shall count for a new term of office in its own right,” ends the clause. This is in contrast with the Sports Act 2013 Section 41 (c) (i) that states, “The chairperson of a sports organization shall hold office for a term not exceeding four years but is eligible for re-election for one more term.” Mwendwa says the move is geared at aligning their constitution with that of world football and continental governing bodies, Fifa and Caf. Fifa and Caf presidents can serve a maximum limit of three terms of four years each. The same applies to Fifa Council and Caf Executive Committee members as passed at congresses held in Switzerland and Morocco. “We are basically introducing term limits to our members to each serve for a maximum three terms of four years. We passed the same at FIFA and CAF congresses recently and without aligning our constitution to theirs, they won’t approve it. “Also note that FIFA and CAF constitutions supersedes Sports Act as far as football is concerned. Critics have to note that successful presidents have served a maximum of three terms,” Mwendwa told Nation. Also set for discussion at the AGM will be the recognition of FKF Centres of Excellence as clubs affiliated to FKF. The centres will be eligible to receive transfer fees, training compensation and solidarity contribution. North Rift and North West Rift branches also proposed the splitting of rift valley region into two. Further, each club playing in the National Super League, shall have to sign five players under the age of 20 years whereby one player should be fielded in a match. National division one clubs to have eight U20 players within their roster and two to feature in a match. Teams not adhering to the rule, which comes into effect at the beginning of the 2018 NSL season, will forfeit the match.  