Students at the public universities have reason to worry about their future. While their colleagues in most private institutions can plan with certainty when they will complete their studies, the calendar of public universities is often interrupted by factors beyond the control of the administration. This week, the University of Nairobi shut down and students were ordered to leave the campuses after a bloody confrontation with the authorities over the arrest of a student-leader-turned politician. Presumably, the students won’t return until after the fresh presidential poll ordered by the Supreme Court is concluded and threats of political violence subside. FATE The students have surrendered their fate to the hostile politics that has escalated tensions since the Supreme Court annulled the August 8 poll President Uhuru Kenyatta was declared to have won. Just like other Kenyans, the student community is openly divided between President Kenyatta, the Jubilee Party leader, and Mr Raila Odinga, the National Super Alliance presidential candidate. Political instability is likely to persist until the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission conducts the repeat poll and declares the winner, and the loser hopefully concedes defeat gracefully. When the political differences spill to the streets, the students find themselves on the wrong side of the law because they join other demonstrators and hooligans, who loot, rob innocent Kenyans and damage property. STRIKES The students are pushed back to their campuses and if chaos persists, the university administration sends them home. The students are also vulnerable to the frequent national strikes by public service professionals. Strikes by lecturers, doctors and nurses have a long-term impact on student outcomes, including their academic performance and how long they take to complete their studies. When lecturers are on strike, all students are affected but when doctors and nurses strike, those in medical schools suffer most because they are unable to conduct their clinicals in hospital wards. AFFECT The absence of doctors and nurses affects clinical observations because patients also disappear. Such disruptions result in economic losses. They affect the entry of the students into the job market and employers cannot plan with certainty when to expect new recruits from universities. While these issues aren’t easy to resolve, the public universities have a responsibility to jealously protect their standing as fountains of knowledge. They need to engage students, lecturers and other stakeholders in constructive dialogue to minimise the disruption of academic programmes and the impact on performance. ADVISE The administration should regularly advise students on the pros and cons of engaging in public demonstrations. The students need to know that while they have a democratic right to picket or protest, these rights come with responsibility. The risk of breakdown in an organised protest can also be costly. The administration should be sympathetic to students who peacefully demonstrate for a just cause, but it cannot be on their side when they are infiltrated by criminals. DEAL FIRMLY The administration should also deal firmly with students who fail or prefer not to complete their studies in time. It doesn’t add up when a student enrolled for a four-year course, extends the stay by several years. This particularly happens with mercenaries for hire, who are used to influence student politics — including the outcome of student elections and mobilisation of students for political protests. Claims of students being linked to dirty business networks are also common in the universities. VIGILANT Such activities shouldn’t happen if the university security machinery was more vigilant. Sealing loopholes that the external forces use to penetrate and influence the students would be an important step in protecting the integrity of universities and the performance of their graduates. It is not easy, but where there is a will, it can and should be done.  Mr Warutere is a director of Mashariki Communications Ltd, ptwarutere@gmail.com  