Two recruits at Kenya Police College in Kiganjo, Nyeri County died on Saturday afternoon after a routine run around the institution. The two recruits, who are said to be members of the same squad, are suspected to have died of food poisoning. It is, however, unclear what snacks the recruits ate during the weekly road march outside the college on Saturday. Police records show that one recruit died during practice while the other one collapsed in the dormitory shortly after taking a shower. The first recruit is reported to have collapsed during practice and was trampled on by his colleagues before he was rushed to the college dispensary for treatment. PASSING OUT The victim's condition, however, deteriorated and was transferred to Consolata Hospital Mathari where he was pronounced dead on arrival. The second recruit is reported to have fallen from his bed and hit his head on a metal box after passing out. He was also taken to the institution’s dispensary and later transferred to Consolata Mathari Hospital where he was pronounced dead. Both recruits are said to have had similar symptoms prior to their death. They had difficulty in breathing and were also foaming from their mouths. A detective privy to the case said that the recruits are suspected to have died from food poisoning. PHYSICAL TRAINING Every Saturday, all recruits undergo physical training which involves running several kilometres around the college. “During the runs they (recruits) are advised not to eat any food from outside the college. The two apparently ate something and that is what could have affected them,” said the officer who cannot be named as he is not permitted to address the media. The matter has been reported at the Nyeri Central Police Station under Occurrence Book Number 50/7/10/2017. An inquest file has also been opened with the Directorate of Criminal Investigations ahead of postmortem on the two bodies. Efforts to get a comment from the Nyeri County Criminal Investigating Officer Bridget Kanyai bore no fruit as she was out of office.  