The shooting incident in Las Vegas, United States, early this week, in which nearly 60 people died and several hundreds were injured by a lone gunman confirms the important role private citizens can play in enhancing security. It is imperative to note that there is nowhere in the world where police alone can effectively manage security. The situation has worsened with the emergence of new tactics applied by terrorists, other criminals and lone shooters against innocent civilians, focusing on maximum casualties. There are three main lessons from this attack. One is the need for an overhaul of the conventional police tactics in law enforcement. Just like the military with the doctrine of conventional and guerrilla warfare, the police must realise that criminals have also adopted non-conventional criminal approaches, hence the need for change. Secondly, private security providers must change their approach in searches and securing places. STOCK GUNS The attacker surprisingly had all the time to stock guns and ammunition inside a hotel room. The big surprise is how he managed all this without anyone raising the red flag. Most searches in big hotels and shopping centres are routine and hence easy for a serious attacker or criminal to find his way. Hotel attendants, including cleaners and other workers must have noticed something unusual about Stephen Paddock but ignored to report. His must have been totally different from ordinary rooms since the killer had stocked guns and bullets. READ: 58 killed in Las Vegas shooting This was a big lapse by citizen failure from reporting the case to authorities or even hotel management. With ignorance on security awareness by hotel staff, the attacker had all the time to plan. Many citizens are unaware of security shortcomings since they believe this is the mandate of the police. To quote the Las Vegas police boss, “police can’t be at all places at all times”. INNOCENT However, police need to blend as undercover operatives with a rich active reserve force posing as ordinary workers. The Vegas attacker spent 12 minutes in a hotel firing at innocent civilians yet the response was poor.  Undercover police can be confined to airports, tourist areas and all areas under heavy civilian activities, including train stations, crossing points like Likoni Channel and public hospitals with a lot of activity. Heavy deployment of uniformed police leaves them as soft targets and creates more public panic. While Kenya is emphasising police force expansion, we need parallel security measures to aid the overstretched service. It is high time the country adopted public security awareness programmes. Martial arts is crucial and this can be introduced in schools. Citizens must be taught basic tactics of self defence against shooters and since the largest segment of the population is youth, we can upload such programmes for free on police websites. RESTRICTIONS Australia, US and many other developed countries have these programmes for free and without any restrictions. Hotlines for anonymous reporting need to be activated where reporters can confidently pass information to police for timely reaction. Police need serious training on how to handle informants and be accepted as friends of citizens. The Vegas attack clearly gives the impression that there is no adequate security anywhere in the world. It occurred in one of the most secured cities in the US. This is one of the few cities in the world with a genuine 24-hour economy yet last week attack has confirmed that no one is safe. It will be paramount for security experts in the world to review the  Las Vegas incident to have good learning lessons in order to improve our security.  Mr Mbarak is a retired military officer and a certified security management professional. bartaza16@yahoo.com  