When Leonardo da Vinci, he of the famous Mona Lisa painting remarked that a painter should begin every canvas with a wash of black, because all things in nature are dark except where exposed by the light, he didn’t know that 498 years after his death there would be a lad using that quote as a principle in his work. That lad is 20 year-old Carl Lewis Oyieko. He does realism art in both drawing and painting. “In layman's language, I do portraiture. That is making portraits of people and things by drawing or painting,” he says shyly. As if that’s not enough, also does landscape abstract and mixed media. A jack of all trades but a master of two: drawing and painting.   ABSTRACT ART “Abstract art is painting something virtual, things that don’t exist…imaginary things while landscape art is painting what one sees anywhere, anytime at least under the sun,” he explains. How did he start? Did he just pick a pencil and a brush and started painting? “I started gradually at a young age but did my first portrait at Class Five. Afterwards, I mastered the skills as time went by.” He attributes this to hard work, not talent. Carl is not of the conventional idea that talent is everything in the skills industry. “My older brother draws too. In fact, he was better than me before but he stopped practice. Hard work beats talent,” he says acknowledging the long hours he puts in his craft. Carl dismantles a preconceived notion in the arts industry that talent comes first, to him, ’making baby steps takes you far’.   “When I was young I never knew people could make money out of art. I knew art is just there for beauty.” When he joined high school, he met people with various skills who taught him art styles. Through his mentors, he started selling art pieces though he got off to a rough start. “It was difficult to get customers but gradually, my customer base increased because they said my art talks.” In a month, he makes an average income of Sh20,000. He charges per portrait depending on the size. A size of A3, A2, A4 goes for Sh3000,  Sh5000 and Sh8000 shillings respectively. His clientele are middle class Kenyans. Like any other business, he has challenges. UNSERIOUS CUSTOMERS “Sometimes you get customers that are not serious, they give you work then they realise they can't pay so they go silent. People backtracking on payments hurts my business.” He is comfortable with the earnings for now. “With the market at the moment, I would say it’s proportional to the pay but obviously I am looking forward to getting a bigger market so that the pay can increase.” The young artist confesses he is usually after the work and not after the pay. He is keen on perfecting his skills. Carl Lewis joined The University of Nairobi early September of 2017 to pursue a Bachelor of Arts in Design degree. His eyes are firmly fixed on the prize.   “I want to take my art business to greater heights like joining international galleries. I would also love to build an art school in Kenya.” DAD TOOK HIM TO ART SCHOOL His dream of building an art school is inspired by his dad's decision to take him to an art school. “My dad ensured that I went to art school,” he says with pride further revealing that he went to Vihiga Friends High School where he took up art as a subject. After completing his high school education, he volunteered at Lavington Art Centre for one year before joining campus. The art centre played a role in the incubation of his business as his colleagues sought clients for him. POSITIVE ATTITUDE “I would advise parents to have a positive attitude towards art because art is life.” He is simply leading an artistic life, during his free time he plays guitar, does dance choreographies with friends and appreciates music. “I want to do weird things like Leonardo da Vinci. I want to invent new styles and techniques like him so that 1000 years to come, I’ll be in the books as a pioneer of a certain style of art,” he expresses of his obsession with Leonardo da Vinci.   Artists are reminded every day to be themselves, so is he suggesting that he wants to be the next Leonardo? “Yes, if you want to shine you need to be yourself but also everyone has goals. Yes I want to be the next Leonardo da Vinci, not the name but because of discovering something new...that doesn't mean you're not yourself.” He encourages people to check his art work on Instagram @artwork254. Do you have feedback on this story? E-mail: lifeandstyle@ke.nationmedia.com 
  
Wilson Mwangi, 23, runs a business inspired by his love for cartoons - VIDEO.
