When the transformation of the roads sector in recent times is one day chronicled, the Kenya Roads Board will occupy a critical space. While its visibility is sometimes blunted by the fact that it does not get directly involved in actual road construction like the Kenya National Highways Authority (KeNHA), the Kenya Urban Roads Authority (Kura) and the Kenya Rural Roads Authority (Kerra), the KRB is the engine behind the modernisation that has taken place in the past five years. A statutory body formed by the Kenya Roads Board Act No. 7 of 1999, its purpose is to oversee the road network and coordinate its rehabilitation, development and maintenance, and most critically, to be the principal adviser to the minister in charge of roads. The KRB is in charge of the collection and management of the Road Maintenance Levy Fund (RMLF) and transit tolls. The levy currently stands at a uniform Sh18 per litre of petrol and diesel, having risen from Sh1.5 and Sh1, respectively, when it was first introduced in 1993. The KRB has grown the fund from a low Sh7.7 billion in the 2001/2002 financial year to Sh27.8 billion in 2013/2014, to the Sh46.7 billion for 2016/2017. RAISING FUNDS We are exploring other methods of raising funds, including what is poised to be Kenya’s first Infrastructure Bond. An information memorandum has been prepared and we feel emboldened by a favourable credit rating. The KRB allocates funds based on the needs of various areas and agencies. The biggest allocation has been reserved for KenHA, which takes care of national roads (Class A, B and C roads), at 40 per cent, followed by KeRRA, at 22 per cent. The latter handles constituency and rural roads. Urban roads get 10 per cent; county governments 15 per cent and national parks one per cent. The KRB reserves two per cent of the collection for internal administrative operations, while the roads agencies get a further 10 per cent under the Road Sector Investment Programme (RSIP). The length of roads under maintenance growing from 20,000km to 35,000km. Through stringent technical, performance and financial audits of roadworks, the taxpayer is getting value for money, with compliance now at 60 per cent. ROAD NETWORK The board has also undertaken a study whose end product has been the re-classification of the road network. A road inventory and condition survey is underway. In January, some 39,995.1km (Classes A, B, C, D, H, J and S) of roads were classified as national trunk roads, while 121,456.4km (Classes E, F, G, K, L, M, N, and P) are county roads. The inventory and condition survey will help to update the database with roads, whose width is less than nine metres. The ongoing inventory estimates that 40 per cent of the road network is in good condition. By inference, a proportionately large portion of the network is in either poor or fair condition and requires urgent rehabilitation. Some 80,000km shall be added to classified network, realising a network of 240,000km. INFRASTRUCTURE The role of infrastructure in economic growth as envisaged in the Vision 2030 cannot be gainsaid. Efficient, accessible and reliable infrastructure is an enabler of sustained economic growth, development and poverty reduction. It lowers the cost of doing business, improves security, livelihoods and the country’s global competitiveness. The target for the second five-year phase will be to gradually close Kenya’s “infrastructure deficit”. Our target is to construct and rehabilitate 5,500km of roads, comprising 3,825km national trunk roads and 1,675km county roads. About 1,700km for Non-Motorised Transport (NMT) facilities, including paths and walkways, have been incorporated. About 800km of roads will be designed, while some 4,257km and 1,735km of national trunk roads and county roads, respectively, will be periodically maintained. In addition, 200,000km will be given routine maintenance.  Mr Ruwa is the executive director of the Kenya Roads Board. jruwa@krb.go.ke  