Jubilee Party is expected to receive politicians who have defected from its main rival, Nasa, on Sunday in what is billed as the ruling party’s biggest catch at the Coast. President Uhuru Kenyatta is expected to be in Mombasa to receive several opposition politicians to Jubilee camp. Sources revealed that one of the politicians is former Mombasa Senator Hassan Omar who is said to be warming up to the ruling party. DEFECTORMr Omar contested for governor’s seat but lost to Hassan Joho on August 8.  He garnered 43,787 votes against Mr Joho’s 221,177. Suleiman Shahbal of Jubilee came second with 69,515. Speculation of his defection erupted after photos of Mr Omar and Mr Abdulsalam Kassim, one of the key leaders of Uhuru Kenyatta’s campaign team in Mombasa, were widely circulated on social media on Thursday. PHOTOThe photos taken in top Jubilee campaigner Farid Hisham’s office, showed a group of youth in party T-shirts. Mr Kassim contested the senator’s seat in the Jubilee nomination but lost Hazel Katana. Reached for a comment, Mr Kassim however said he was not aware of Mr Omar’s defection, saying the photos were taken when the former senator visited Mr Hisham to console him after a close aide was injured by a stray bullet late last month at Tudor when thugs attacked and killed Chege Gitau, a businessman. “I cannot confirm whether Mr Omar has decided to join us or not. But as Jubilee we welcome level-headed politicians who are not swayed by empty rhetoric,” he said. “We are ready for elections and we are confident of doubling the 99,000 votes President Kenyatta got in the August 8 election,” he added. BETRAYEDMr Omar, who is said to be assisting Jubilee to develop a campaign strategy ahead of the October 26 presidential rerun, could not be reached as his phone was switched off. But speaking at a press conference on September 11 when he announced his intention to challenge Mr Joho’s victory, the former senator lashed out at Nasa Presidential candidate Raila Odinga and his deputy and Wiper party leader Kalonzo Musyoka, saying they had betrayed him. He also announced his resignation as Wiper party secretary-general and particularly attacked Mr Musyoka, accusing him of playing second fiddle to Mr Odinga. 
  
Mr Joho wants the petition by Mr Omar and his running mate Linda Shuma struck out.