Mobs on Tuesday disrupted planned training sessions for electoral officials in three stations in Kisumu, Migori and Homa Bay counties. In Kisumu, the morning incident happened as clerks hired to conduct upcoming elections gathered at the Awasi Multicultural Christian Centre for a four-day training. 'ILLEGAL' Kisumu Returning Officer John Ngutahi said the session was to prepare 399 presiding and deputy presiding officers when the mob struck. The attackers, according to Mr Ngutahi, claimed the training was an illegal activity. “We were just assembling and not all the officers had checked in when the incident happened. The police intervened and we had to relocate to a safer venue,” he said. The training was moved to Awasi Sub-County office, where police were deployed. Police were also forced to guard another training session at the Ahero Multipurpose Hall after youths attempted to disrupt the preparations for October 26 repeat presidential election. In Migori, youths stormed Simba Hotel, where IEBC officials had gathered for training and forced them out. They claims there will be no elections and no preparations for it unless the reforms their Nasa coalition has demanded are met. 'TRAITORS' In Homa Bay, security officers responded to rescue a group of IEBC officers gathered at Sikri School in Kasipul, after youth attacked them. A contingent of police officers were also been sent to Kabunde Social Hall where training for the poll officials for Homa Bay Town Constituency was taking place. Police kept at bay angry youths who threatened to attack the officials, calling them traitors. Homa Bay County Police Commander Marius Tum said security has been beefed up to in all the training centers across the county. PEACE RESTORED "We have ensured that the poll officials are safe as they are being trained on how to conduct the election," said Mr Tum. Homa Bay Returning Officer Michael Kosgey said some youths had disrupted their meeting with the poll officials in Kasipul but police had been called to restore normalcy. "The situation has been restored to normalcy after police came in to disperse the youths who wanted to attack the poll officials," said Mr Kosgey. MCA Awasi-Onjiko Ward Representative Otieno Ongeta praised  the locals for taking swift action, arguing IEBC officials would not be allowed to work there. “I thank my people for standing with the position of the coalition (Nasa)," he said. "Today was meant to mourn the people who were killed in the anti-IEBC protests. People should be on the lookout and  ready to flush out any illegal activity.” He reiterated National Super Alliance leader Raila Odinga's call that: “There will be no elections without reforms .” RAILA Mr Odinga, who has since pulled out of the repeat election, wants systems and personnel changes made at the IEBC, among other reforms. They include removal of IEBC CEO Ezra Chiloba and 10 other senior officials accused of bungling August 8 General Election, a proposal the ruling Jubilee Party has opposed. The opposition also wants changes to elections laws, as passed by Jubilee Party-dominated National Assembly and Senate, stopped until after repeat poll. President Kenyatta received Election Laws (Amendment) Bill and Election Offences (Amendment) Bill and he has 14 days to make a decision. Reporting by Victor Raballa, Elisha Otieno, Barack Oduor   Judge Mativo also stops arrest, prosecution of Nasa CEO Norman Magaya.