GETTING THE BEST AVOCADO PRODUCE I would like to know how to make my avocado trees produce good fruits as last season most got spoilt or rot.Vanessa Maliga The following are the management practices for good production of avocados: Pruning: Normally, no pruning is required besides the removal of broken and diseased branches and trimming those touching the ground. Sucker growth is checked to remove shoots coming out of the rootstock. Weeding: The orchard should be weed-free. It is recommended to have vegetables growing between the rows of young plantations. Beans have shown better results. Nothing should be planted closer than 2m from the tree.  Higher crops such as maize and sunflower should not be intercropped with the avocado. Irrigation: To have good production of avocados, irrigation is necessary, especially during the dry period. The quantity of water applied depends on the moisture characteristics of the soil and age of the trees.  It, however, varies from 25-35 litres per tree per fortnight. Since avocados are intolerant to salinity, the water used must be free from salts. Manure and fertiliser application: To obtain maximum growth and optimum yields, it is important to supply the avocado tree with necessary nutrients.  It is, however, dangerous to give excessive amounts on any size of trees at one time as it may cause root damage, leaf burn and defoliation.  The type of fertiliser to be used depends on the soil pH.   In the planting year, it is advisable not to top dress the orchard since this may retard root development during the first 4-5 months after planting.  After this period, 60g of 26 per cent N fertiliser should be applied after every three months when the soil is moist.  In addition, about 25kg of well-rotten manure should be spread around the trees after each year.The use of farmyard manure is strongly recommended because it improves the physical condition of the soil and promotes the absorption in the soil and uptake of micronutrients by the plant.  The nitrogen levels listed above should be applied in splits. Avocado trees also have a very high requirement for potassium, magnesium and zinc.  Measures should, therefore, be taken to supplement them when they fall short. Carol Mutua, Department of Crops, Horticulture, and Soils, Egerton University. **** WHAT MAKES WATER MELONS BURST I’m in the lower zone of Meru and have planted watermelons on two occasions, the hybrid varieties. The results, however, didn’t meet my expectation. The fruits were small, appeared bent (didn'tassume their normal shape) and suffered blossom end rot. They also burst anyhow and had lots of water. In your expertise, what could have befallen the crop?Amos Gitonga Small and misshaped watermelons are as a result of low temperatures because the fruit is a warm season crop. This can also be due to aphid infestation because the pest acts as vectors of mosaic virus.  Blossom end rot is caused by irregular watering, lack of calcium in the soil and use of too much nitrogen fertilisers in the early stages of growth.  Bursting of watermelon is caused by erratic watering or a drought followed by heavy rainfall which causes excessive accumulation of water in the fruit and this builds up pressure within the fruit and it eventually bursts. Carol Mutua, Department of Crops, Horticulture, and Soils, Egerton University. **** BEST WATER MELON VARIETIES TO GROW I am a farmer at Njoro, Bagaria and I am interested in watermelon farming on an acre. Please furnish me with relevant information on the best variety to be grown and best practices needed from October considering the short rains. I wish also to use my 0.5 acre on beetroot, thus, furnish me with the best variety. Enock Mogaka Varieties: The most common varieties of melons are Charleston Gray, Sugar baby, Sukari F1 hybrid, Pato F1 and Early scarlet.  Propagation: Melons are commonly direct seeded, except under conditions where the growing season is short, whereby transplants raised in containers are used.    For the direct seeded, the planting depth is about 2cm and between row spacing is 1.5-1.8m, while the intra-row spacing is 30-60cm. Fertiliser: Application of nitrogenous fertilisers is based on soil type. Soils with high organic matter require 80kg N/ha, while light soils require 140kg N/ha.  The nitrogenous fertiliser should be applied and incorporated into the soil at planting time.  Phosphorus and potassium applications are based on soil tests, and both should also be applied at the time of planting. Depending on the environmental conditions, 450-600mm of water is required within a growing season. Weed control: Weeds should be adequately controlled, especially when the melon plants are young. Weeds which grow upright offer greater competition by shading the melon plants.  Weed control can be achieved by application of black plastic mulches, cultivation, and use of herbicides. Diseases and insect pests: Melons suffer most of the diseases and insect pests that attack other cucurbits.  Diseases such as powdery mildew, downy mildew, alternaria leaf spot, anthracnose, and fusarium wilt cause problems under certain conditions.  Insect pests such as cucumber beetle, which is a vector for bacterial wilt, aphids, flea beetles, and melon worms cause problems. Harvesting: Watermelon is ready for harvest in about three or four months.  Maturity is indicated when the fruit gives off a hollow sound when tapped with knuckles.  The fruit stem should be cut with a sharp knife rather than broken by hand. Beetroot varieties include Bolthardy, Cylindra, Burpees Golden,Chiogia pink and Detroit 6 Rubidus. Carol Mutua, Department of Crops, Horticulture and Soils, Egerton University. **** I WISH TO START BEEKEEPING I am Francis based in Nairobi, but I have a piece of land in Lanet, Nakuru where I want to start beekeeping. My question is, how will I start and where do I get bees? Prospective keepers desire to start right with bees that are healthy and productive. Even then, bees coming to you (local swarming bees) are hastened when conditions are made suitable.    For instance, after siting and setting up an apiary, you need a catcher box or bait hive to ‘stock the hives’. Applying beeswax on top of bars or placing old honey combs in unoccupied hives have worked best.  The swarm will have a better chance of staying in these new hives if captured during peak of nectar flow. For more information on beekeeping and its apparatus, refer to my article, ‘A must-have starters’ guide to beekeeping’ published on February 6, 2016 on Seeds of Gold website.  Felix Akatch Opinya, Department of Animal Science, Egerton University. 
  
Your questions on farming and agribusiness answered by experts through: satnation@ke.nationmedia.com