The alleged defilement of a 13-year-old girl in a cell at Murang’a Police Station by a police officer is disturbing coming 15 years since Kenya enacted the Children Act, 2001. This Act domesticated the African Charter on the Rights and Welfare of the Child and the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, which Kenya ratified in 2000 and 1990 respectively. By ratifying these two treaties, the State is not only obligated to pass legislations that would bring in the realisation of the principles and objectives of the treaties but also put in place mechanisms for the enjoyment or realisation of the rights as provided. Additionally, Article 53(f) of the Constitution of Kenya provides for legislative provisions on the treatment of child offenders. Whereas Mr Laban Maina Njogu, the accused policeman, has been charged in court, I will restrict my comment to the rights of the minor victim. Section 18(2) of the Victim Protection Act, 2014 rightly provides that a child victim who is held in any institution shall be treated in accordance with the provisions of the Children Act 2001. JUVENILE OFFENDER So what does the law provide to protect the rights of a juvenile offender? The Fifth Schedule of the Act provides for Child Offender Rules. Rule 6(1) specifically provides that “a female child shall, while detained, conveyed or waiting, as described in paragraph (1) of this Rule be under the care of a woman officer.” This is where there is a gap in legislation, as it provides for one thing, but delivers the opposite. Why was a female minor left overnight in a cell being manned by a policeman and not a policewoman or conveyed to a place of safe custody pending court attendance or transmission to a home for juvenile offenders? Is the State doing enough in providing adequate budgetary allocation to the National Police Service to develop proper infrastructure in to cater for vulnerable people in police custody? Who do we blame for failure to implement legislative provisions and policies — creating an environment or circumstances that made the commission of such alleged crimes possible in a police cell? PROSECUTING SUSPECT Apart from prosecuting the suspect, does the victim have a right to sue the State for its failure to provide her with a safe holding facility? Whereas we have seen the institutional transformation that Judiciary and the Directorate of Public Prosecutions have gone through, little has been done to improve reception and holding facilities for juvenile offenders or children in need of care and protection who are temporarily held in police cells. The crux of the matter is “access to justice” which starts from the point of arrest. The recent incident in Murang’a shows that our justice system is lacking in terms of respecting the rights of the child and protecting their dignity. JUSTICE SECTOR In conclusion, the National Council on the Administration of Justice which brings together all actors in the justice sector — including the police — has a special task force on children matters. I expect that this incident will not just lead them to come up with another policy recommendation, but that they will get an actual commitment from the police on the handling of female juvenile offenders. The writer is an Advocate of the High Court of Kenya and a human rights practitioner  