How will life after the elections be? Will we sigh with both relief and exhaustion and try to pick up our lives from where we left off? We have been so immersed in the elections that for many it has become a distraction from the tough struggle of everyday life. We need to prepare ourselves for the brutal return to reality. It is timely to remind ourselves of the state of the country. DROUGHT The country has experienced one of the worst droughts in living memory. The problem this time is that the drought has been an extended one. This was compounded by the inadequate rainy seasons. It resulted in rising food prices, shortfalls in supply and all-round inflation, and a decline in the standards of living. Hopefully the onset of the rains will bring some relief and help bring down prices, but this will not be instant. POLITICSThe extended drought should be seen in conjunction with the run-up to the August 8 elections and the October 26 rerun presidential election. The country, its people and the economy have been hostages to the political process and its shenanigans for the better part of the year. Our lives have been dominated by the never-ending politics and we do not know how long this is likely to continue. One major by-product of this is that many things have been put on hold as most of us adopted a wait-and-see approach. We have lost valuable economic activity. ECONOMY This is likely to lop a couple of percentage points off our economic growth. That translates into many jobs either being lost or not created. Indeed, it does not matter what statistic one looks at; they have all taken a knock. Many industries have diminished order books and embarrassing surpluses of produce. We are importing around 30 per cent of the vehicles we were bringing in before. POVERTYOne auction company is quoted as saying it is holding 10 auctions a month, up from four before. Distressed borrowers are having their items sold at knock-down prices since the supply has increased massively but demand has dwindled. A grim by-product is the sharp increase in the number of Kenyans below the poverty threshold. Another major ingredient to the economic and commercial slowdown has been the Banking Amendment Act of 2016, which has had the overall effect of cutting the availability of credit. This has had a dampening effect on commercial activity, with the SMEs especially hit. MAIZE Heavy domestic and international debt has left little room to fund additional expansive policy initiatives as much of the money is needed to service those debts. Then there is the legacy of other questionable policies such as the subsidy of maize. It will be tough, even grim, for many Kenyans. Many of the problems facing us remain and a number will harden further in the next few months. This will be complicated by renewed expectations due to the rerun. Our incoming leaders, nationally and regionally, are between a rock and a hard place. FUNDS They have in-trays stacked with an assortment of challenges, and, of course, requests and demands. They are boxed in by constraints, money being one of them. Their capabilities will be stretched like elastic bands. A public that has been besieged is demanding action and results. Those are just the immediate issues. There are the overall structural ones like trimming the bloated public service and the need for leaner and more efficient administrations to deliver more. PRODUCTIVITY There are the demands to get the economy and commercial activity back on track. Amongst these should be a review of some of the past actions such as the capping of interest rates. Coupled with that is the urgent need to create more real and sustainable jobs and opportunities for the hundreds of thousands of people seeking them each and every year. Get moving guys. You have loads and loads to do. The country has been patient but now wants results. Mr Shaw is a public policy and economic analyst:robshaw298@gmail.com  