Coffee co-operatives want regulations that allow growers to enter agreements with parties other than the unions scrapped. Growers want coffee regulation number eight, recommended by a presidential taskforce, to be amended to stop farmers from entering into agreements with other parties, which they argue will help grab contracted members. “We want this regulation to be struck out. ‘‘Otherwise this will spell doom to existing cooperatives,” said representatives of cooperative societies. The officials were speaking when coffee stakeholders met in Nairobi for public participation in the new regulations after the High Court suspended implementation in July over lack of consultation with county governments. The court gave the Ministry of Agriculture 30 days to hold consultation with the stakeholders when annulling the already gazetted regulations.“We obeyed the court directive and that is why we are here today for the stakeholder’s meeting. ‘‘The 30 days given by the court were not sufficient and we have requested for more time,” said Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Willy Bett. READ: US now top buyer of Kenyan coffee with Sh7bn purchase Farmers who spoke during the meeting were also opposed to the regulation that allows counties to mobilise growers for centralised coffee marketing to the overseas markets. Growers argue that such a move is not viable, taking a leaf from the Nyeri County experience where farmers incurred huge losses when the county tried securing direct market in the US two years ago. Last year President Uhuru Kenyatta appointed a 19- member committee to address the challenges that farmers have complained about for long. READ: Coffee farmers invited to make proposals on regulation Mr Bett said when the bill is gazetted, farmers will earn 85 per cent of the returns from coffee with only 15 per cent being deducted as expenses by the respective cooperatives. “Farmers have been earning less from their crop. This is very wrong. ‘‘We want a situation where the farmer gets the bulk of the money from their crop given they are major players in the value chain,” said Mr Bett.  