Kabras Sugar went top of the National Sevens Circuit standings after their triumph at the Christie Sevens over the weekend at the RFUEA grounds.  The sugar millers’ 19-7 comeback win over Resolution Impala Saracens saw them become the first team to win two legs of the circuit this season, following their exploits at the inaugural Sepetuka Sevens a fortnight ago in Eldoret. Kabras lead the standings with 85 points, moving up one spot after collecting 22 points after defending their Christie Sevens title, the fifth leg of the circuit.  And with the final leg to come this weekend at the Dala Sevens in Kisumu, Kabras Sugar are in pole position to claim their maiden series crown. A Cup final appearance at Dala Sevens will guarantee them the national title and coach Charles Cardovillis has called for caution ahead of the finale. “We need to maintain our mental shape and ensure we perform better than Impala and Homeboyz so as to clinch the title,” Cardovillis said. Kabras’ Ugandan ace Philip Wokorach was voted the tournament’s Most Valuable Player after an impressive outing having missed the last two legs of the series.  Wokorach was also named in the Team of the Tournament. KCB youngster Mike Kimwele was voted as the tournament’s most promising Player while Kenya 7s international Dennis Ombachi received the top try scorer accolade. Kabras had finished fifth in Driftwood and Prinsloo respectively and lost in the play-off for third place at Kabeberi. Impala moved one spot to second after back-to-back final appearances and are on 80 points, five points behind the leaders after bagging 19 points at Christies. The Sarries are also in contention for the Series and club coach Oscar Osir is relishing the battle. “We made some mistakes that cost us the final on Sunday but we are still alive in the race and promise to come prepared in Kisumu,” the former Kenya international said.  Series defending champions Homeboyz dropped two places and sit in third place after reaching the Cup quarters at Christies. The Deejays are on 78 points but still have a chance of retaining their title. Top Fry Nakuru and Menengai Oilers are placed fourth and fifth respectively with 73 and 68 points respectively. KCB, who finished fifth are sixth with 67 points followed by Quins, Strathmore Loes, Mwamba and Nondies in that order. STANDINGS  1.Kabras 85  2.Impala 80  3.Homeboyz 78  4.Nakuru 73  5.Oilers 68  6.KCB 67  7.Quins 57  8.Strathmore 50  9.Mwamba 43  10.Nondies 32 11.Machine 31  12.Western Bulls 27  13.Blad 26  14.MKU Thika 9  15.Makueni 4  16.Catholic Monks 4 17.Kisii 2 18.Falcons 2 
 