This is not Germany. We don’t live in quiet, windswept boulevards where everyone is civil and peaceful. We live in a corner of the world where one of our neighbours has not had a proper government going on 30 years, where grenades are thrown into the homes of opposition MPs, where a government critic is shot in his own home in broad daylight, where declaring an interest in the presidency will see your father hounded to an early death, your mother arrested and vilified and where you will be arrested and incarcerated endlessly and with the utmost impunity. We live in Africa. So far, we have managed to create an oasis of relative peace, with the potential to grow and provide an anchor for other societies in similar struggles. A durable, stable, democracy can’t be decreed by a dictator; it resides in the hearts of a determined population. And that’s what we are trying to create here. GOOD CRISIS Someone used to say that it is a sin to waste a good crisis. You use it for the common good. The madness of 2007 gave us the impetus to work for the 2010 Constitution, the jewel in Kenya’s crown. This is not to say that we should encourage crises in order to sort our issues. It is merely to take advantage of unfortunate set circumstances to extend the common good. So how do we use the current crisis to ensure that the country is never paralysed or taken to the brink by electoral disputes? First, we need to identify what the real problems are. Right now these problems are buried under a mound of selfish political interests, career anxieties, financial insecurities and  a myriad of other sideshows. The problem with Kenya today is first and foremost that of representation. Without judging, when a politician offers himself for office, he is not doing so as an individual – there is no such thing in Kenyan politics – he is a representative of a tribe. FUNNY DECISION When a judge takes a funny decision, his whole tribe lines up to defend him. If you slap William Ruto, the Kalenjin feel the pain, in a manner of speaking. If you kick Musalia Mudavadi in the shin, the Luhya nation walks with a limp. Number two, and because individuals represent tribes, we can’t have a winner-take-all system, not if we want to have a peaceful and stable country. Electoral loss means the exclusion of an entire community or cluster of communities. This is where inclusion comes in. So what do we do? The presidential system of government is inappropriate for us because we are heavily tribalised and some of our leaders are crazy enough to cause a war just to plant their snouts in the trough. Rather than carpeting the whole place with “irreducible minimums” and other short-term demands, there should be an agreed constitutional amendment Bill capturing the need to remove the presidential system and create a hybrid one more suited to our circumstances. PROTECTION In that system there should be a president and deputy president with the requisite power and authority as required for the protection and development of the nation and under them a prime minister and two deputies, also exercising substantial authority. After an election, the presidential candidate who comes second should automatically proceed to the Senate and become the position of Senate Leader of Minority, while his or her running mate is nominated to the National Assembly and assumes the position of Leader of the Minority. This nomination business achieves two things. First, it builds a strong opposition independent of government, and other largesse. Politicians stop depending on criminals and shadowy foreign interests to finance their lifestyles and political careers. POLITICAL CAREERS Secondly, it reduces the level of personal desperation among political leaders so that losing an election ceases to be career suicide. Thirdly, individuals and the tribes they manifest will not feel that they have been thrown into the rubbish heap when they lose an election. Finally, I think it is important to build a constitutional structure that ensures that governments represent as much of the country as possible. So we should raise the threshold from 50 per cent plus one, to 70 per cent plus one for a first round win. And to ensure that a few clever folks don’t gang up and use their numerical strength to lock the rest of the world out of government, we should create electoral quadrants and require a candidate to achieve a certain level of support in each quadrant so that each government, by law, ethnically and geographically, represents the entire nation. Thus, we design an electoral system suited to our circumstances, our peculiarities and our ethnic proclivities. This is not Germany or America. We must have tailor-made democracy to fit us otherwise we will end slaughtering one another. Kenya has everything going for it – except for corruption and its bad politics. This is crisis is an opportunity to fix some of that. mmutuma@ke.nationmedia.com  