We are the champions, again! Oh, what a feeling!  That Gor Mahia has no peers these neck of the woods has never been in doubt. What is amazing is the way they have won this year’s title - lifting the diadem with four matches in hand. Being a team full of sportsmen, my cheeky suggestion would be that we donate those remaining matches to any of the deserving teams as we keep our eyes on the upcoming continental battles next year.It was a well-run campaign and the boys deserved to lift the title.  Sleek and on the sly, the K’Ogalo players often left opponents running after them in consternation and exhaustion. Peerless. the virtuoso performance in Kericho was the icing on the cake. The reporter for this newspaper who was at Kericho’s Green Stadium captured this historical moment thus: This was a show of real character and fighting spirit by Gor Mahia, coming all guns blazing from the opening minute to the end to be crowned champions of Kenya for an unprecedented 16th time with four matches to spare. Medie Kagere has scored 11 goals in the SportPesa Premier League this season, most of them important, but Saturday’s winner against Ulinzi Stars must rank top in the list of his most crucial goals in his illustrious career. The Uganda-born Rwandan striker found himself all alone with goalkeeper Timothy Odhiambo in the 12th minute here to slot home the opener - and the only goal of the match - after he was released by Francis Kahata.” And just like that, we clinched the league! My appeal to chairman Ambrose Rachier and his team at the club’s management is that they should now start serious preparations for the continental campaign come 2018. We need a formidable team that can echo the greatest squad we ever had- the terrible assassins who lifted the Nelson Mandela Cup in 1987.  Bwana chairman, I was a schoolboy but the verve and the razzmatazz that was at the Moi International Sports Centre is one I will carry with me to the end of my life. I don’t think I will be asking too much from you if I say that as fans we need another such performance. There is the possibility that more than half of the current Gor Mahia supporters never watched that show and it behoves you as the chairman to give them this once in a life time opportunity. I am strongly convinced that at Gor Mahia we have a squad that can face off with some of the continent’s finest. The ball is now squarely in your court Bwana Rachier. Lastly, a word of congratulations to our long suffering neighbours Ingwe for lifting the GOtv shield. A rare achievement for them. 
  
The next season shall certainly be a very dry one for most of the teams for lack of sponsors.