Senate majority leader Kipchumba Murkomen has termed the resignation of IEBC commissioner Roselyn Akombe as part of the wider scheme to ensure the October 26 repeat poll does not take place. Speaking on a TV interview Mr Murkomen stated that “some people are working hard to cripple the forthcoming poll”. He said Jubilee was determined to go ahead with the planned presidential poll. COURT Asked whether he thinks the polls will be credible in light of the issues highlighted by Dr Akombe, Mr Murkomen said it was not the role of politicians to decide whether the polls were free and fair. “It is not out duty to speculate or imagine that the elections will meet the constitutional and electoral laws. That is the duty of the court. It is the court which will decide whether the elections met the constitutional obligations,” he said. Dr Akombe resigned stating frustrations within and outside the electoral commission. “I acknowledge that the Supreme Court gave us orders to organise the presidential election within 60 days. The current political conditions did not exist on the 1st of September when the order was issued. It would therefore have been logical for the Commission to be frank with the Kenyan people and clearly state the challenges we face in organizing a free, fair, and credible election,” she said. In an update on Twitter, IEBC said it regrets the resignation Dr Akombe. The agency said it will provide more details in due course. PRAISE Meanwhile some opposition leaders have praised Dr Akombe's move and called on the electoral agency to postpone next week’s repeat poll following the resignation of one of its senior official. Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo said IEBC should postpone the elections to a later date and consult the Supreme Court on the way forward following the imminent expiry of the 60-day window provided in law to conduct the repeat polls. Kinango MP Benjamin Dalu Tayari lauded the bold step taken by Dr Akombe, saying she has shown the way for other commissioners to follow suit. "Her resignation has shown that IEBC is not an independent body that can be trusted to conduct free, fair and credible elections," he said. He also called for the disbandment of the entire commission to pave way for a fresh team that will head the commission. REGRET  But while some are lauding the move others have read mischief in the decision and claimed that she is sabotaging the October 26 elections. Former Kinango MP Samuel Gonzi Rai said Dr Akombe's resignation is unfortunate and it puts Kenya at a risk of further political crisis. "We are now at the helm of a big political crisis in the country. This is not acceptable. How can a commissioner mandated to carry out a public task resign while out of the country?" he asked.  Reporting by Sam Kiplangat, Pius Maundu, Fadhili Fredrick 
  
IEBC commissioner Roselyn Akombe says repeat election as planned cannot meet the basic expectations of a credible election. Adds that she went to New York fearing for her life.