Mandera East MP Omar Mohamed Maalim has called on locals to maintain peace ahead of Thursday’s repeat presidential election. Speaking to Nation, Mr Maalim who is a former deputy governor, said it is every citizen’s right to vote or not to vote on Thursday, adding that there is no law allowing anybody to block another from voting or force one to vote. “I urge the Mandera East community and the county at large to remain peaceful during this period as we head to [the] repeat presidential election on Thursday,” he said. VOTE UHURU Mr Maalim, elected on Economic Freedom Party (EFP), an affiliate of Jubilee Party, rallied locals to come out in large numbers and vote for President Uhuru Kenyatta. “We voted for President Uhuru Kenyatta on August 8 and time has come for us to do it again despite calls by [the] opposition for their supporters to boycott [the poll],” he said. He wants the Jubilee supporters in Mandera to ignore the opposition’s stand and wake up early on Thursday to vote for President Kenyatta. The first-time MP said turning Mandera into political battlefield will hurt every sector and expose the area to terrorist activities. “Mandera is the furthest point of this country from Nairobi and we need a lot in terms of development which will only be achieved through a leadership that understands our situation,” he said. FOCUSED LEADERSHIP According to Mr Maalim, the only leadership that is focused and understands the needs of Mandera County is the Jubilee administration. The former deputy governor said political instability should not be allowed in Mandera which has suffered due to insecurity, poor infrastructure and the biting drought. “We don’t need a situation where elections are going to divide Mandera but those voting should be allowed to exercise their democratic right,” he said. Mr Maalim described the opposition’s calls to boycott the Thursday election as a sign of cowardice which should not be tolerated. “The Supreme Court ruled that a repeat election be done within 60 days and we are doing that but the opposition is engaged in showing their cowardice and misplaced agenda,” he said. On the feud between Jubilee Party and EFP in Mandera, Mr Maalim appealed for calm ahead of a court ruling on a petition in the governor’s race. EFP’s Hassan Noor Hassan has since petitioned Governor Ali Roba’s win leading to divisions among the electorate.  