The defining moment for the country and Kenyans is finally here. The outcome of the repeat presidential poll scheduled for Thursday will, hopefully, end the political impasse that has persisted in the last 60 days, taking a major toll on economic and social activities. It is widely expected that the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission will deliver results that will reflect the supreme will of the people, who have a unique opportunity to settle the political contest between President Uhuru Kenyatta, the Jubilee Party candidate, and Mr Raila Odinga, the leader of the opposition Nasa. After the poll is done and the President installed, the most urgent business for Kenyans and the government will be to restore the confidence that the political heat has eroded since the Supreme Court annulled President Kenyatta’s victory in the August 8 General Election. MASSIVE LOSSES The business community has reported massive losses from nervous securities and currency markets, booking cancellations by tourists and lost or postponed business opportunities from foreign investors anxiously waiting for the hostilities to subside. The poor performance of the private sector has taken its toll on the economy, which has slowed down from a growth rate of 5.8 per cent last year to five per cent this year. The impact of the prolonged political crisis has been aggravated by other factors, including drought and reduced bank credit to the business sector. Improved confidence is needed to reverse the trend of losses and restore the foundation of economic growth and job creation. While politics imposes a huge cost on the economy, Kenyans are good at making rapid recovery when the situation improves. The worst political crisis in 2007/8 left the country in tatters, but in two years, the economy had sufficiently recovered, creating more wealth and jobs. EMOTIONAL DAMAGE The economy dipped from a growth rate of 7.2 per cent in 2007 to 1.5 per cent in 2008, but recovered to 5.8 per cent by 2010. After a long drought that reduced the growth rate to 4.5 per cent in 2012, it rose to 5.9 per cent in 2013, before declining to 5.4 per cent in 2014 and improving to 5.7 per cent in 2015. The outcome of the election will be a defining step for Kenyans to repair the physical and emotional damage caused by the uncertainty of the past two months, which was heightened by street protests, and confrontations over Mr Odinga’s demand for changes at the IEBC. It will most likely challenge Kenyans to undertake reforms and deepen existing ones in critical areas to mitigate the impact and cost of political conflicts. The pace of economic and social recovery will depend on the depth of engagement between the government, the people and other actors, including development partners, in addressing the root causes of conflicts and violence. YOUTH EMPOWERMENT The government will need to scale up youth empowerment, social protection, agribusiness and infrastructure development. Such initiatives are likely to have a long-term impact of reducing the population of poor people susceptible to manipulation by politicians during elections. There is a need to undertake major institutional reforms, particularly in justice and governance. Reforms are necessary to sharply focus these important institutions on their core mandate and to reduce overlaps in their responsibilities — which often results in conflicts. DIALOGUE It’s important to ensure value for money by rationalising the cost of these institutions to the taxpayer with the quality of their service delivery. Politics does matter in shaping the country’s destiny, but it doesn’t have to always stall economic activity. The long-term aspiration should be to have an electoral system that sustains constructive dialogue and delivers at the ballot, without disrupting economic activity. The defining future of a dynamic Kenya should be founded on a mature democracy that protects the pillars of economic and social prosperity. Mr Warutere is a director of Mashariki Communications Ltd, ptwarutere@gmail.com  