Nasa leader Raila Odinga has accused President Uhuru Kenyatta of ordering the deployment of heavy security in opposition strongholds ahead of the October 26 elections. Mr Odinga wondered why the Jubilee administration was keen on increasing the number of police in the regions yet other regions have a shortage of security officers to serve them. He said the President’s directive to deploy additional police officers especially in Luo Nyanza was aimed at intimidating the community. “It is high time the President treated Luo with some dignity and respect because they are equal shareholders of this country and not second class citizens. Nyanza is in Kenya and deserves dignity,” said Mr Odinga. But even as he insisted heavy security was being sent to his strongholds, the National Police Service described as lies claims that GSU officers were sent to Nyanza to vote. POLICE RECRUITS “The trucks seen are those of police recruits going for field training in Kajiado,” said Mr George Kinoti for NPS in a statement. Mr Odinga however said: “I have heard that the government is deploying a huge number of police in Luo Nyanza. I wonder what they are coming to do yet Luo residents are peace abiding citizens. It is shameful for the President to deploy more security officers in this region yet other parts of the country are left unmarked.” He was speaking during a funeral of his relative, Mzee Caleb Yaya, in Usenge, Bondo, in Siaya County. Nasa co-principals Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetang’ula also attended separate funerals in western region where they reiterated calls for their supporters not to take part in the fresh polls set for Thursday. PRESSURE Speaking in Lugari during the burial of Victor Musungu, bodyguard of area MP Ayub Savula who died last week in a road accident, Mr Mudavadi said they will not participate in the polls because the ground is not level. He accused IEBC of pilling pressure on Nasa to participate in elections. Mr Mudavadi said that IEBC as currently constituted cannot guarantee a verifiable, free and fair election going by revelations by former commissioner Roslyne Akombe.  “We are fighting for future generations so that when their time comes and they want to lead this country, their votes are never stolen. This kind of injustice cannot continue forever,” he said. “How can we go to the polls with the same referee? IEBC is busy recruiting presidential candidates instead of organising for fair polls. Our stand remains we want free, fair and credible elections,” he said. SHUN POLLS Mr Wetang’ula, while addressing mourners during the burial of a former politician and member of the Luhya council of elders, Mr Mark Udoto Nyongesa at Musaga village in Navakholo, Kakamega County also asked Nasa supporters to shun the polls. “We want to ensure that Kenyans are not forced to a bogus election until the ‘irreducible minimums’ demands by Nasa are addressed,” Mr Wetangula said.  He said western region was getting ‘a raw deal’ in terms of development from the Jubilee administration “and that is why we want to have an election that befits all players and benefits all citizens.”  He said going to polls on October 26 will be legitimizing the Jubilee regime.  LEVEL PLAYGROUND Mr Wetangula asked IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati to postpone the election and create a conducive environment that will provide a level playground to all players.  “It is not too late for Mr Chebukati to cancel the date of election. In 2015, when the environment was not conducive in Nigeria, the Independent National Electoral Commission chairman Professor Attahiru Jega changed the election dates to March 28 and April 11. This can still be done in Kenya,” said Mr Wetangula.  The Senator advised Mr Chebukati to take charge and save the country from burning in his hands.  
  
President accused Raila Odinga of holding the country at ransom with his demands.