Sports Principal Secretary Kirimi Kaberia has assured that four stadiums that were to initially host matches of the ill-fated Africa Nations Championships will completed despite Kenya losing the tournament’s hosting rights. The Confederation of African Football (Caf) last month stripped Kenya of the continent’s second-tier tournament’s hosting rights due to delays in stadium works and the tense political atmosphere generated by repeat presidential elections. The four stadiums are Nairobi’s Moi International Sports Centre and Nyayo National Stadium, Kinoru Stadium in Meru and the Kipchoge Keino Stadium in Eldoret.  Kasarani had been allocated Sh300 million, Nyayo National Stadium was to gobble up Sh703 million while the Kipchoge Keino Stadium was to consume Sh630 million. A further Sh869 million was allocated for the refurbishment of the stadium in Meru.  Kaberia dismissed as “fake news” reports that the money allocated for the development of sports infrastructure has been recalled by Parliament, saying such reports were untrue, and that Parliament has not made any communication to the ministry regarding the development. “There is nothing like that. It is all fake news and it is a pity it is coming from main stream media. “What happened is that I appeared before the parliament committee to present the ministry’s position just like I appeared there last year and the years before that. It is a law requirement for all principal secretaries.  “I have no information about the parliamentary committee taking back the money. They have not written to us. I can assure you that this is news being peddled by people hell bent on misleading the public,” an angry Kaberia said.  The Sports PS was responding to reports across a section of the media which indicated that the select committee scrutinising the Supplementary Budget has elected to redirect the Sh5.6 billion previously allocated for the refurbishment of four stadia in the country to more urgent government programmes. Kaberia affirmed that construction work at all these venues will continue without delay, and that none of the venues will stand incomplete in January next year.  “We already gave out contracts, remember that. We haven’t recalled those contracts, meaning that the contractors are still working in the same time lines. We expect the stadiums to be ready by end of December at the very latest,” he said. 
  
Even the Council of East and Central Africa Football Associations (Cecafa) is concerned.