Muhoroni Youth rallied from a goal down to hold visiting Zoo Kericho to a 1-1 draw in a SportPesa Premier League (SPL) match at Muhoroni Stadium on Thursday. Kenya Under-20 striker Nicholas Kipkirui shot the visitors ahead in the 12th minute but Hassan Kiyoyo replied five minutes later from the penalty spot. Defender Dominic Ouma brought down Bliss Kityo in the area and referee Badir Yassin did not hesitate pointing to the spot. Kiyoyo took responsibility to beat goalkeeper Vincent Misikhu, and made no mistake from 12 yards. The took Zoo’s points tally to 35 at position 13 from 29 matches while Muhoroni remain rock bottom on 25 points after 28 rounds. “The game was balanced, we both created chances but after taking the lead we relaxed. Our main target is to retain our premier league status this season because we have a team getting used to demands in the top flight,” Zoo coach Sammy Okoth said after the match. Muhoroni coach James ‘Odijo’ Omondi, who took charge following the resignation of George Maina, blamed his blunt strike force for the draw. “We dropped two points because we had numerous chances but we failed to utilise. We have to sharpen our finishing before the next game on Sunday," said Omondi. "We are not going down. We’ve many matches remaining we can register positive results and survive.” The visitors had a bright start in the game, controlling the early exchanges. Diminutive midfielder Mike Madoya hit the woodwork six minutes into the match and the Kericho-based side continued to raid the sugar millers until the 12th minute when their pressure paid off. Kipkirui lurched onto a loose ball inside the area and fired into the back of the net with Gradus Ochieng’ left napping in the Muhoroni post. Bernard Odhiambo would have doubled their lead at the quarter hour mark but the striker fired wide from the area. Action swung from one end to the other after the hosts levelled. Kipkrui, in his first season in the top flight, thought he had claimed a brace in the 50th minute but his ferocious shot ricocheted off the crossbar. Former Nairobi City Stars and Gor Mahia custodian Ochieng’ produced an outstanding save to deny Isaac Kipyegon a goal from a well taken free kick two minutes after the hour mark. Both sides pushed for a late winner in vain. Muhoroni host Kakamega Homeboyz on Sunday while Zoo visit Posta Rangers on October 22.  