Will we or won’t we have an election on October 26? That is the question on everyone’s lips. Yet despite the changes that each day brings, we are not any nearer to getting an answer or resolution. Matters are certainly not helped by Wafula Chebukati’s doublespeak and ambiguous statements. One day we are assured that all the complaints of Nasa have been addressed and we are ready to roll. The next day the chair states openly that he cannot guarantee a credible poll. His ambiguity is putting the security of the country at risk. This is hardly good at all. The choices facing Mr Chebukati are few and none of them is easy. He can go back to the Supreme Court seeking advice if he is unprepared due to the many obstacles that he claims his secretariat and other commissioners have put in the way of the reform process. SUPREME COURT Alternatively, he may proceed and oversee an election that he is not sure will pass the Supreme Court standard of free, fair and legal. Finally, if his claims of interference and intimidation are genuine then he may still do the honourable thing and resign. Yes, the future of this great country is very much in his hands even if we know that the best of ballots will not be able to address the political crisis and ethnic divisions that need a wholly different solution. At the grassroots level, then what advice does one give to the hundreds of observers who have volunteered to oversee Thursday’s scheduled ballot? Provide them with helmets and running shoes in the event of chaos in the polling stations? There is little doubt that in areas where Nasa is the dominant party, there would appear a strong likelihood of violence both from protesters and State agents; those who want to prevent the ballot and those who want to secure it. With the combative Dr Fred Matiang’i warning of his own militia supporting the State forces then expect violence. MAYHEM Nasa rarely supervises its forces either and so expect mayhem, loss of property and life. Mr Raila Odinga and Mr Uhuru Kenyatta appear determined to use the threat of force to get their way. Not enough Kenyans have died for them to be forced to sit at the same table. Mr Kenyatta asked all Kenyans to pray for reconciliation and peace this Sunday. But after exchanging his suit for the Jubilee uniform he announced that there is nothing to debate with Mr Odinga save for his retirement dues. The country needs reconciliation but it begins with the two protagonists as they alone have pushed the country to the precipice. CRISIS This is not to let a compromised electoral commission off the hook. As 26th draws near be assured that elections will not solve the crisis! But another flawed ballot will precipitate the inevitable collapse of the nation. This country needs prayers. Prayers may not always change God but they can change us. Whatever happens this week, Kenyans must reclaim the nation and put the warlords in their place. Think, talk, pray and act like a Kenyan so that next week we see some hope and light emerging from the tunnel. God help Kenya. Father Dolan is a Catholic priest based in Mombasa. gdolan54@gmail.com @GabrielDolan1  