I recently attended a regional workshop on research in science, technology and innovation (STI) and it blew my mind. Having been involved in research for the past 35 years, I have literally been inside the forest and seen trees around me. This week I stood back and saw the forest. It is now clear to me that Kenya is one of the regional leaders in terms of top researchers and their outputs. However, it was evident that there is a disconnect as research findings are not reaching the end users. This is the role of the government. It should ensure that science and technology is used to provide efficient services to citizens. For Kenya to become a middle income country in the next 13 years, it will require a strategic move to enable maximum utilisation of STI to identify economic, social and political priorities. A good example is in health, where cancer is increasingly becoming a major deterrent to achievement of Vision 2030. ECONOMIC STATUS The economic status of persons, families, communities, and the nation is strained by the cost of diagnosis, treatment, palliative care and funerals. The disease competes for limited resources with the personal, familial, community and national educational needs. Cancer has become a political issue, as evidenced by the recent decision of national government to acquire equipment for county hospitals. Kenya has competent researchers whose findings can provide preventive, diagnostic and treatment solutions for specific cancers, geographical areas, sex and age groups. Research findings should be produced and made available. One way is the placement of the science and technology docket. In some countries, STI is domiciled in the Office of the President. This means that research resources can be efficiently deployed and findings quickly translated to provide solutions for pressing national challenges. BASIC EDUCATION The history of STI placement in Kenya is long; moving from a stand-alone ministry through the Ministry of Regional Development Science and Technology, to its current  home in the Ministry of Education. It is probably the result of a search for effectiveness that has placed STI together with universities, where the majority of researchers are to be found. Unfortunately, STI poorly competes with basic, secondary, university and technical education with myriad challenges of free education, exam fraud, teachers’ strikes and university campus accreditation and quality. To give STI the prominence it requires, it would be ideal to place it in a stand-alone ministry. This is, however, highly unlikely with the constitutional cap on the number of ministries and thus the search for a strategic home where it has a competitive advantage. A placement with Industrialisation would be ideal as it is science technology and innovation that will drive industries to achieve Vision 2030. REASEARCH A ministry of industrialisation, science and technology would link researchers in all sectors (education, agriculture, medicine, IT, engineering, etc) in the public and private sectors. This ministry should also house research management agencies such as National Commission for Science, Technology and Innovation (Nacosti), National Research Fund (NRF) and Kenya National Innovation Agency (Kenia). This will be an ideal one-stop shop for researchers, irrespective of discipline. A ministry of industrialisation science and technology will provide the strategic partnership for transfer of findings from researchers to industry for achievement of economic, social and political service provision.  Prof Mutugi is the deputy vice-chancellor, (planning, research and development),  University of Kabianga. mwmutugi@yahoo.com.  