Q. Going by the school certificate forgery scandals that are lately being reported in the media, it seems the only way to tell whether a certificate is genuine is to call the institution said to have awarded it. As a human resource manager, how would you handle such a case if the person in question is your employee?  The easiest and surest way to confirm whether documents presented by candidates are original is as you have stated; obtain confirmation from the awarding institution. Since the process of checking and confirming documents can be tedious, recruiters tend to use firms that offer services in reference checking. There are other ways to ensure that the documents presented are genuine though. One is to require that all shortlisted candidates hand over a certified copy of their certificates. Certification may be done by the institution’s authorised signatory, or by an advocate of the High Court. But this is also a little old fashioned. The easiest process in this digital era should be to verify the information online using the applicant’s admission number. In many organisation’s Code of Conduct policies, forgery would be classified under gross misconducts, and when proven, summary dismissal should be applied. This is an offence that puts to question the employee’s integrity, and obviously, such a person cannot be trusted. I see recruitment adverts that ask for candidates with high integrity and I get baffled. Integrity is integrity. It can’t be measured or categorised as high or low. In answering your question, I am reminded of a case study on integrity where a manager has to deal with misconduct by two employees; one steals Sh10, 000, the other Sh100, 000. The manager is in a dilemma on how to apply justice in the two incidents, given the amounts involved. There should never be any doubt on how to classify such an offence. They both stole what they could get away with. Under different circumstances, they would have taken more. Each time a HR or line manager tries to rationalise and defend a gross misconduct, they encourage that behaviour or practice, enhancing a culture that demeans integrity and elevates dishonesty. Yes, there is a place for second chances, and when an employee is let go, he is expected to learn his lesson and be diligent in his next job. And so in this case, the writing is on the wall. And summary dismissal it is.  