Enemies of development, and they are many, view me as a useless fellow — one who has no value to add in life. When I was on teaching practice at St Theresa’s Girls, I remember one teacher there, he must have been called Unoka or Okonkwo, who never thought anything good could come from me.  That teacher, said that I was so useless that I could only be used as a bad example!  That statement hurt me so much that I considered withdrawing from the teaching practice programme, but I was not so sure that Kenyatta University had any provision for withdrawing from teaching practice midstream. Luckily, that teacher is in the minority. The majority people know how important I am to my family, my school and the community. I am a role model to all the young ones in the region and all reasonable parents tell their children to work hard in school and succeed like me. I know there are those of you who are wondering what is it that I have achieved. I will enumerate some of my successes here. The strong C- I scored at Mwisho Wa Lami in 1998 remained a record in this school for long, and was only broken in the Kaimenyi era when, not only did exams leak but even the marking schemes were easily available!  Then I went to Kilimambogo Teachers Training College, where everyone remembers me for my great achievements. In fact, my exploits in both co- and extra-curricular activities are still discussed there. Indeed, you will find “Dre was here” inscribed on most toilet walls, over a decade later. As a P1 teacher, I have excelled in handball, choir, drama and leg-ball. Have I even told you that I am the only teacher in this region who is pursuing a degree at the internationally recognised Kenyatta University? And I have other firsts as well, like being the first man to have a proper wedding in Mwisho wa Lami village. We have had pre-weddings before, but mine remains the first, and only real wedding of a true Mwisho wa Lami son. Then there is the ongoing construction of my huge, seven-room, state-of-the-art permanent house. Enemies of development will remind you that the house is far from being completed four years later but this is the biggest house ever started this side of the Sahara. It is the above achievements that have made me a role model. Indeed, most parents in Mwisho wa Lami who want their sons to succeed send them to me for mentoring. And those who want their daughters to grow up right send them to Fiolina for mentoring, so that they can also be married to as successful man like me. So when Tito, the owner of Busy Bee Academy, sent me an SMS asking to see me to discuss the role I could play during the graduation of his pre-unit class, I knew he wanted to benefit from my fame. “Our graduation is on October 24 and we have everything set except for a Guest of Honour,” he told me when we met. “And I have looked around and I can’t think of anyone better than you to grace the event.” “That is OK. I will do a great job to encourage the small children to work harder,” I said. I then asked him to show me the programme. “Although I am yet to graduate at Kenyatta university,” I said after looking at his simple programme, I have attended one or two graduation ceremonies and I can help you make it very academic.”  His programme only had prayers and speeches from the teachers and guest of honour.  I asked him if he had graduation gowns which he did not have.  “A graduation is not complete without a gown and degrees,” I told him, clarifying that by degree I meant the graduation hat. That day, I made contact with Mr Maina of Sharp Shooters Academy who accepted to give us his gowns for a day at a good price of Sh120 per gown. We also took three graduation hats.  We, however, charged the Busy Bee Academy Sh320, making a cool Sh200 per pupil. Including the graduation gown, all parents paid Sh760 per student for the graduation ceremony. And we ensured that all the 31 students pushed their parents to pay towards the big event. I reworked the programme to look like a full university graduation. The big day was last Tuesday. I left early to go to school to inspect the arrangements. We had erected a tent and invited a good number of people from the church, village elders and neighbouring public and private schools. Not forgetting villagers known for gate-crashing. Once I saw everything was working according to the plan, I went back home and dressed for the occasion. On top of my latest blue Kaunda suit, I also wore a graduation gown that I had borrowed from Maina, together with a hat, then left, went to school and sat in Tito’s office. All the 31 graduands were in the class. A few minutes past 11 am, when all the parents, guests, and students were seated, we left my office together with the teachers of Busy Bee and led a procession with the graduands to where the ceremony was being held amidst song, dance and applause from everyone. The graduands were great in their graduation gowns, but without hats.  The programme started with prayers from Apostle Overseer Elkana. This was followed with entertainment from pupils of Busy Bee Academy, and then more entertainment from Mwisho wa Lami Primary Choir. After entertainment was time for speeches. Two teachers and a parent spoke, followed by a poem from one of the graduands. Next was a sermon from Apostle Elkana then Tito, the schools director, who congratulated the graduands, and thanked the teachers, parents for the hard work. He then invited me. “Let me now invite our Chief Guest of Honour, the Dean and Vice chancellor of Busy Bee Academy, his Highness Mwalimu Andrew, GHC, CRE..” He went on. “Makofi kwake, moja.. mbili..funga.. fungua!” he led everyone into clapping as I took to the stage. I had prepared a great speech. After thanking everyone, I started presiding over the elaborate ceremony. Tito would call the name of a graduand and their parent – both who would come forward. The parent would then place a garland around their neck; after which the pupil would come to me for a recitation.  “I hereby give you the powers to read and succeed in life just like me,” I would say as I placed the graduation hat on their head. After that, the pupil, one teacher, parent, Tito and I would take a photo together. We only had three garlands and three graduation hats that we kept reusing. We were done by 3pm, after which Apostle Elkana prayed. The guests on the high table went to Tito’s father’s home where we were served chicken, beef, chapati, rice and sodas. The graduands went to one of the classrooms where they took rice, matumbo and ndengu. The rest were served mahenjera on basins. It was a great day! Word on how I had presided over the most comprehensive graduation ceremony spread like bush fire. So much that Maina has also invited me to preside over the graduation of his KCPE candidates this Friday, just a day after KCPE. I am reworking the programme and redoing a better speech. I can’t wait for Friday!   mwalimuandrew@gmail.com | www.facebook.com/mwisho-walami 
 