Kenyan international winger Ayub Timbe is in celebratory mood following his Chinese League One team Beijing Renhe’s promotion to the country’s top tier, the Chinese Super League (CSL) with two games to spare. Deng Hanwen and Jaime Ayovi’s goals against Tianshan Leopard on Sunday were enough to lift the side to the top of the 16-team log with 59 points, one ahead of closest challengers Dalian Yifang. The 25-year-old is elated at the opportunity to rub shoulders with star players in the top flight like former Chelsea midfielders Oscar, John Obi Mikel and Ramires, Argentina forward Carlos Tevez and Hulk among others. “I can’t wait for the league to kick-off next year. Finally, we are in the top flight and a perfect chance to play with the best in the world,” a delighted Timbe told Nation Sport from his base in China. “I am happy that my contribution since I joined the team has not gone unnoticed. I sustained an ankle injury about a month ago but I am recovering well. In about 10 days, I will be back on the pitch to continue with rehabilitation,” added the former Belgian side KRC Genk man, who netted eight goals and provided three assists in 23 games for the Chinese outfit. The JMJ Academy product, nicknamed Cheetah by Beijing fans due to his quick feet, says he has learnt a lot since moving from Europe to Asia. "These are two different continents with different cultures. Their game is so physical but their fans’ love is incomparable. I feel more at home here." OMOLLO SCORES Elsewhere in Belgium, Kenyan midfielder Johanna Omollo scored his maiden goal for Cercle Brugge in a 3-0 win over Beerschot-Wilrijk in a second tier fixture on Saturday. Omollo opened the scoring two minutes into the match before Dylan de Belder and Guevin Tormin added the other goals in the 28th and 69th minutes respectively. Brugge are third on the eight-team log with 18 points from 10 games. In the Swedish third tier, Vasalund IF midfielder Eric Johanna returned to his club from international duty on time for the Sunday fixture against Akropolis where they lost 4-0. The team is third from bottom on 22 points with four games to the closure of the current campaign. Johanna featured in Kenya’s 2-1 loss to Iraq last Thursday. David King’atua, in the same tier, was a second half substitute in Oskarshamns’ 3-1 defeat to Ljungskile. Finally in the United States, New York Cosmos defender David ‘Cheche’ Ochieng’ clocked 90 minutes in a 2-2 draw away to Indy Eleven on Sunday. Cosmos sit fourth on the standings with 13 points after 12 games.  