Season 2 of Our Perfect Wedding (OPW) is back on the screens to give viewers more entertainment coupled with drama that goes into planning “the perfect” wedding. The second season will feature 26 couples instead of 14 as was featured in the first season.In the new season, viewers will once again get a chance to experience the drama, excitement and emotional journey that comes with planning a wedding. The show was launched at an all-white affair held on October 6 at Sarova Panafric Hotel. The winning couple will get the wedding of their dreams with an all-expense paid wedding and honeymoon. During the launch Margaret Mathore Maisha Magic East Head of Channel said the channel remains committed to promoting local content in Kenya. “Weddings are a large part of the Kenyan culture and African culture as a whole. Our Perfect Wedding is the only reality drama series that revolves around the whole wedding process that we all love. Wedding planning comes with its dose of drama as well as entertainment and inspiration. This is what we want to showcase to our audiences,” said Ms Mathore. OPW is a magazine show that will follow twenty six Kenyan couples through their wedding planning process, showcasing all the drama that comes with getting the perfect dress, the perfect venue and perfect cake; not forgetting the in-laws and the traditional ceremonies that have to be concluded before the bride can walk down the aisle. In the first season, a Nairobi couple won an all-expense paid wedding and honeymoon package of up to Sh10 million, courtesy of Maisha Magic East and Sarova Hotels, Resort and Game Lodges. Daniel Makau and his fiancée Beatrice Muthoni beat 13 other couples to win the top prize. The two impressed a panel of judges who comprised of the most sought after wedding planners in the country. The 28 year old Makau and his 22 year old fiancée told ActScene that it was a blessing from God that they won. “We met in January 2015 at Redeemed Gospel Church in Mihango and when we heard there was a competition, I gave my fiancé a promise ring to signify that I will keep all the promises I have made to her from today henceforth. Now we have two less things to worry about as we wait for our perfect wedding,” Mutua said. Kenya was chosen as the next best home for Our Perfect Wedding after the show had been broadcast in two countries in Southern Africa.  