Following the collapse of Sigiri Bridge in Busia County early this year, the contractor has started rebuilding the structure, in strict adherence to the conditions of contract and risk management provisions. The project was conceptualised under the design, build and maintain concept. The tender invitation from the Kenya Rural Roads Authority (Kerra) went out on September 2014, for contractors registered by the National Construction Authority to bid, and an evaluation undertaken to ensure value for money, in accordance with the Public, Procurement and Disposal Act. It was a purely market-driven process to ensure accountability and transparency. CONTRACT The contract was awarded to China Overseas Engineering Company on March 5, 2015, at a cost of Sh992.5 million. The scope entailed the construction of approach roads, bridge works, culverts, preliminary and supervisory services. The design and construction period was 18 months, while the maintenance period was five years. In a typical design, build and maintain concept, the parties to the contract are the employer, employer’s representative, the contractor and the contractor’s representative. CONTRACT TERMS The terms of the contract allow the employer to appoint a representative, who in this case was the general manager (design and construction), represented by a resident engineer, whose role is programme monitoring, inspections to ensure compliance with contract provisions, design checks and certification of interim payments and the final account. Typically, the contractor is expected to undertake the project design, construct and maintain the works after commissioning. The contract runs on the principle of single point responsibility. It is thus the contractor’s sole mandate to complete the works. In addition, the contractor is also responsible for default of sub-contractors, setting out the works, setting up a quality assurance system, protection of the environment, preparation of progress reports and ensuring security on site. CONTRACTORAny resultant liability on such projects lies with the contractor until the handing over to the implementing authority or employer, in this case the Kenya Rural Roads Authority (Kerra). According to a technical report on the ‘Collapse of the Mid-span of the Sigiri Bridge’ during construction, the failure occurred due to wrong scheduling on the placement of concrete. The collapse was also caused by works undertaken outside authorised working hours without supervision. The government is fortified from any possible financial loss by the performance guarantee, insurance and for the delays covered by liquidated damages. COMMISSIONING The 100-metre bridge and approach roads should be ready for commissioning by the end of the year. It will undergo a commissioning and integrity test before it is handed over to the government. While the collapse was a rare occurrence, the ministry will evaluate and build on this unfortunate experience. We have instituted disciplinary action against some project supervisors who are employees of Kerra and the contractor. AUDIT We have also commissioned an audit of similar projects to ensure that engineering integrity is maintained. We wish to assure the public that we shall see to it that all road construction and other infrastructure projects are delivered within contract terms and to the highest standards. Eventually, our socio-economic development as stipulated under Vision 2030 are best delivered not just by growth in our road inventory but through a quality, world-class, durable and serviceable national road network.  Mr Mosonik is the principal secretary for the State Department of Infrastructure  