The government has completed the construction of 60 technical colleges, Vocational Training Principal Secretary Dinah Mwinzi has said. Dr Mwinzi noted that an additional 70 colleges are set to be completed by next year. Dr Mwinzi said the government targets to have 290 technical and vocational colleges, 1,540 village training centres and 47 national polytechnics by 2022. LOANSSpeaking during the 8th graduation ceremony of Nairobi Technical Training Institute on Friday, Dr Mwinzi noted that the government through the Higher Education Loans Board had increased financial support to trainees from poor and marginalised households. She added that the government had integrated Special Needs Education in Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TVET). “I ask trainees to apply for Helb loans, and encourage the youth to enrol in TVET courses even if they are pursuing undergraduate studies,” PS said the. PARTNERSHIPDr Mwinzi said the institute has been earmarked as one of the technical institutions that will benefit from collaboration between the Kenya government and Germany’s to establish a mega state-of-the-art centre of excellence in automotive and mechatronics worth Sh1 billion. “This is in addition to the high end equipment for applied sciences through Africa development bank (ADB project in phase one and two worth Sh70 million. "The institution also received mechanical engineering equipment worth Sh100 million in 2011/2012 financial year through government of Kenya and Netherlands project,” the PS said. INFRASRUCTUREShe urged the institute to collaborate with industries in Nairobi and its environs and use the state of the art equipment for industrial production as well as for industrial attachment for trainees and in-servicing of TVET trainers. “To enhance quality and relevance in TVET, the government has collaborated with development partners to equip the colleges with state-of-the art equipment meant for both training and industrial production. "Centres of excellence have also been established in various trade areas across the country to ensure TVET trainees acquire competencies, which are relevant to needs of the industry,” Dr Mwinzi said. RESEARCH The institute's principal, Mr Fredrick Magua, said they intend to establish a department of research and innovation to tap the talents of our lecturers and students. “We therefore appeal to the Ministry to support us in this endeavour by allocating funds,” Mr Magua said. During the ceremony, 1,112 graduands were awarded diplomas and certificates. The graduands consisted of 654 diplomas and 458 certificates.  