Two things are certain, we are hosting Chan and I will not be resigning, but should the unexpected happen, I will step down. With his shrill voice that is utterly obnoxious to the ear, Football Kenya Federation President Nick Mwendwa promised the world that if Kenya lost the chance to host the continental championship, he would crawl back to wherever he came from before being hoisted on us as the leader of Kenyan football. A leader unto doom and gloom as it has now turned out.  Apart from gesticulating wildly at press conferences and making a comical sight of himself, I’m left scratching my head as to what achievements the man has made, two years into his leadership. BUMPY RIDE When it was evident that we were being taken for a long and bumpy ride, Mwendwa with a straight face of a veteran pickpocket caught in the act, changed the tune saying that he would not step down. Speaking at a press conference in Nairobi after the fiasco and where he was put to task by journalists, the president excitedly claimed that “there are people who want me gone.” That said, he vowed that he was not taking a walk any time soon.  “I can say a lot of things but at the moment I’m not resigning. That’s it! I know there are a lot of people who are rooting for me to resign but let them challenge me in an election.  “I will not resign because losing the hosting rights cannot be attributed to me or my office,” Mwendwa was quoted saying. For good measure, the FKF boss ranted on and on about some three or four characters he accused of spending their living daylights on social media maligning him and the federation. Bwana Mwendwa, I have some bad and good news for you.  The bad news is that, yes, there are people who are tired of your leadership at FKF.  The good news is that they are not three or four, but almost the 45 million of us Kenyans who have the best interest of our football at heart. Put your house I order, give us the hope we had when we elected you to head the federation or I’m going to revisit this matter in a more thorough way in not the too distant future. We need to see you achieving the lofty dreams you laid bare to us when you were seeking for votes.  Today I dedicate this column to all my readers who have been steadfast in their support.  If you do it right, we will support you to the hilt. If you do wrong, we will run you out of office sir! 
  
FKF should take time to think about their silly decisions which have come back to haunt them.