Dear Kitoto, Thank you for the good work you are doing. I will be turning 25 on December 25. I feel very stigmatised because I have never had sex. I have tried my best to date several times but have failed because I am very shy and find it challenging to face a girl. Besides, my pastor told me to keep cool because God would bring me the right person. I consider this a big problem because I really want to be in a serious relationship that will lead to marriage. I am tired of being disrespected and embarrassed by my friends; sometimes they call me a failure and loser. What should I do?  Brandon Hi,I see three issues here. First is the fact that you feel stigmatised by your friends’ comments because you have never had sex. The second issue has to do with your shyness while the third is the need for you to set priorities that determine what is right for each season of your life. Now, being a virgin at your age is neither a crime nor something you should be ashamed of. I think the big issue here is the need for you to be proud of who you are. The fact that your friends are making fun of you should not scare or worry you. You need to stand up against that and let them know that, as far as you are concerned, having sex is a matter of values. Let them know that your choice is to have it within marriage and with someone you will love and treasure for life. In any case, having sex is by no means a measure of one’s maturity. Maturity is measured by one’s ability to manage his or her own life. Think about it, in retrospect, it would be immature and naïve for anyone to assume and suggest that, since a particular individual has never climbed a tree in their life, then they must be afraid. That is far from the truth. I have met many people above the age of 30 who have never had sex and yet they still feel great about life. Sex does not complete a person. It is also true that there are many others who are still unhappy in life even though they engage in sex regularly. The important thing to know is that you don’t need another person or thing to complete you. We all work towards certain goals and priorities in life. Personally, I believe in God’s timing. With time you will find someone you treasure. But this takes patience and careful thought. Life is never a gamble. Make every action you take in life count. Don’t allow yourself to be forced into something you will live to regret. Sex is intimate and something you want to be proud of; that you did it with the right person and at the right time. The consequences of living differently are both expensive and take long to heal.  Send your relationship questions to dn2@ke.nationmedia.com  