For the first time in their 17 years history, Kariobangi Sharks feature in a major final when they take on nine-time winners AFC Leopards in the GOtv Shield final at the Moi Sports International Centre, Kasarani on Friday. With a ticket to represent the country in next year’s Caf Confederation Cup, a chance to clinch the second major trophy in the country and a Sh2 million prize money at stake, there’s all to play for. Nation Sport looks at the key battles ahead of the 2pm kick-off at the 60,000-seater. Geoffrey Oyemba v Gabriel Andika Oyemba has been one of pillars for Sharks this season, making a string of saves and this will be another day to show his worth. The youngster dislodged experienced Robert Mboya as the first choice custodian and despite featuring in only one of the five games in this competition, he is set to start on the big day. He faces another shot-stopper on the rise in ex-Western Stima’s Andika who can be difficult to beat on a good day. Both are good on penalties. Masud Juma v Salim Abdallah Juma is undoubtedly a good finisher. Without his free scoring touch, Sharks wouldn’t be in the final. He has five goals in the competition. But in Abdallah, he faces a workhorse who is good at marking his opponents. Whoever blinks first will lose this battle. Michael Bodo v Vincent Oburu Oburu, with five goals in the competition, has the pace and ability to cause havoc at any time. He is good on one against one situations but faces an experienced man in Bodo. Though playing as a makeshift left back, Bodo, formerly of Bidco United, knows when to make runs and intercept a winger’s offensive play. Sven Yidah v Victor Majid Sven is a hard tackler, physical and a workhorse. Majid on the other hand has the experience to read his marker well. Both midfielders are gifted with an eye for goal, and can score with long range shots. Patillah Omoto v Whyvonne Isuza Another tough battle in the middle of the park. Both are technically superb with a high awareness of their roles. Isuza, formerly at Mathare United, has four goals in the tourney but Omoto has a GOtv medal won with Leopards in 2013. Just who will outshine the other today? Geoffrey Lemu Shiveka v Alexis Kitenge Lemu is an experienced and very committed defender. Sharks long-serving player is also the skipper but will he stop Leopards’ predator Kitenge? The midseason acquisition from Burundian side Atletico Olympic has four goals in the competition. He has not been prolific lately but you can’t rule him out on the big day. Matthew Odongo v Dennis Sikhayi Ugandan winger Odongo has been a key part of the Sharks team since his move from Tusker two seasons ago. His quick feet and technique have been a blessing for Sharks. Odongo already has a goal and an assist against Leopards this term, from Sharks’ 2-0 win over their opponents in the first leg match in the league. Sikhayi on the other hand has good pace and loves to move forward with the ball. It will be an interesting battle. Probable line-ups Kariobangi Sharks (4-4-2): Geoffrey Oyemba (GK), Paschal Ogweno, Geoffrey Lemu Shiveka (captain), Paul Kamau, Michael Bodo, Sven Yidah, Patillah Omoto, Matthew Odongo, Ellie Asieche, Duke Abuya, Masud Juma. AFC Leopards (4-3-3): Gabriel Andika (GK), Salim Abdallah, Duncan Otieno (captain), Dennis Sikhayi, Lewis Wanami, Musa Mudde, Victor Majid, Whyvonne Isuza, Vincent Oburu, Aziz Okaka, Alexis Kitenge Sharks coach William Muluya Leopards coach Robert Matano   Lemu is now confident that Sharks have what it takes to finally lift the trophy.