While many countries, particularly developing nations, often experience an economic slowdown during elections, our presidential poll re-run is turning out to be in a class of its own in terms of damage to the economy. Already we have seen GDP growth decline to five per cent in the pre-election period, a trend that is expected to worsen. Tragically, this is happening at a time when the economic outlook has never been better for Kenya, given its strategic geographical location within the Pacific and Indian Ocean zone, the world’s fastest growing economic region, its tech savvy and relatively young population, links to the dynamism of the fast-rising global digital economy, and its demonstrated openness to all who wish to engage with it. FREEDOMWe have already entered economic slowdown: Factory shutdowns are likely to be witnessed, mounting corporate and personal debts, international conference cancellations and increased unemployment - all these are all-too-predictable effects of our dysfunctional politics. It is not for the business community to stop Kenyans from engaging in healthy political competition; too much was sacrificed by too many for anyone to wish Kenya back to those politically repressive days. The national exuberance we saw before the August 8 General Election was proof of Kenyans’ determination to engage fully and freely in determining their political fate, and the business community will never be party to taking away these freedoms. KEPSA But we have a duty and an obligation to point out to politicians the harm their utterances and actions are doing to the economy. Under the auspices of the Kenya Private Sector Alliance (Kepsa), we will not be found to have remained silent during a momentous time for our country, terrified of speaking truth to political power. The following is our considered three-point message to the politicians, the IEBC, the Supreme Court, security agencies and other institutions critical to the success of the presidential election re-run. RERUNBe civil to one another, and other Kenyans. Kenyans have been subjected to vile abuse, crass utterances, hate speech directed at whole groups, be they tribal, ethnic, gender, religious or any other, wild and unsubstantiated attacks on individuals, institutions, companies and others, and threats of violent ejections and boycotts. This is primitive behaviour. Let the presidential election rerun take place. Elections are the bedrock of our political infrastructure; to use a term much in current vogue, they are our one national “irreducible minimums”. BOYCOTT We are aware of the disquiet about the willingness and ability of the IEBC to conduct a free and fair repeat election. And while concerns as identified by the Supreme Court ruling should be taken seriously, boycotts, abstaining or forcing Kenyans not to participate are not the answer or solution to this mistrust. The court gave very specific grounds for annulment, and directed the IEBC to oversee the rerun within 60 days. AUTONOMY We must respect independent institutions to dispense their mandates without fear or favour. If we can change rules using unconstitutional means, for momentary political advantage, if we destroy these institutions, then who will ever have faith in the conduct of elections? As a business community we are for maintaining the independence of institutions such as the IEBC and the Supreme Court, which are in the politicians’ crosshairs right now. METTLE We must let them carry out their mandates. On their part, the institutions’ leaders must demonstrate they are men and women of integrity, of strong character, of vision, and filled with national pride. There will be no winners if Kenya turns into a failed state. God bless Kenya! Mr Obath is a trustee at the Kenya Private Sector Alliance (Kepsa). ceo@kepsa.or.ke  