After a colourful career as one of the leading amateur golfers in the country, Muthaiga Golf Club's Jeff Kubwa has finally decided to turn professional. Kubwa, who turned pro on August 1 this year, though it took him some time to be accepted as a member of the Professional Golfers of Kenya (PGK), made his pro debut during the recent Tusker Malt Uganda Open at Uganda Golf Club where he was among 31 Kenyan pros who participated in the event.  Locally, he was among 40 pros who turned up for the Diani Beach Masters at Leisure Lodge Beach and Golf Resort where he tied for seventh place on 302 gross after rounds of 78, 71, 75 78.  He started golf aged 11 years at Eldoret Golf Club where most of the current Kenyan professional golfers started their careers. Then staying with his father who was an employee at the Golf Club, Kubwa showed great potential and was able to play for the club in a number of events until 2011 where the club made him a honorary member.  It was around that time, that former Muthaiga Golf Club chairman Edwin Kinyua identified Kubwa's potential and recommended him for a honorary membership at Muthaiga Golf Club and put under veteran Charles Farrar for further training.  "That training with Farrar improved my game from 2013 and it took me only one year before I joined the national golf team," says Kubwa, who is grateful to the club for having given him all the support throughout his amateur career.  Kubwa represented Muthaiga in league and events such as the Tannahill Shield and in 2016, he was selected to represent the country in the Africa Region Five at the Royal Swazi and Spa.  It was also in 2016 where he finished second in the then Golfer of The Year (Goty) series which earned him a place in the 2017 Barclays Kenya Open.  He also represented Kenya in the Victoria Cup this year when the event was held at Entebbe Golf Club Uganda. At the club level, Jubwa was part of Muthaiga's winning team for the Nairobi District Foursomes and the Tannahill Shield.  As for the future, besides local events, Kubwa would like to play in the Sunshine Tour in South Africa as well as the Middle East based Mena Tour if he gets a sponsor.  "The only way I can fulfill my dream of winning the Kenya Open, is to up my game by playing in a higher level kind of events such as the Sunshine and Mena Tour," said Kubwa, who turned pro at plus two handicap. 
 