Kenyatta University (KU) Titans on Saturday secured a 2-0 win over Multimedia University (MMU) in a Kenya Hockey Union women’s Premier League match at the City Park Stadium.  Goals from Affline Muiruri and Pet Osuma gave the Titans the three points and bragging rights in the university derby. The win sees the Thika Road-based side improve to 17 points, but they remain in eighth place. Sliders, who play Mombasa Sports Club on Sunday, are in seventh place with the same number of points but a superior goal difference. MMU are second from bottom after their 12th loss of the season having only won once this term. They are on three points, two ahead of bottom placed University of Nairobi.  Titans coach Moses Kagochi was pleased with the result and challenged his charges to keep up with the winning momentum. “Two wins on the trot is a good show from the team and we want to keep this streak going so as to finish as high as possible at the end of the season,” Kagochi told Nation Sport. “We dominated them and cut out supply to their forwards and this allowed us to dictate the pace of the match. We should have even won by a bigger margin.” Titans, who won the reverse fixture 2-0, took time to settle before they eventually got going. After a dull first quarter, in which both sides offered little in terms of attack, Titans started to create chances as MMU dropped deep. The first goal arrived on 20 minutes after a well worked move freed Titans winger Nelly Ogutu down the right and the attacker, squared to Muiruri who sounded the board with a first time shot that MMU keeper Maureen Otieno could do nothing to keep out. One minute to the end of the quarter, Titans doubled the lead as skipper Olympia Chepchumba combined well with Brenda Omaido before slipping a through ball to Osuma, who rounded the on-rushing Otieno and fired to an empty post. MMU threatened with a couple of short corners in the last two quarters but could not find a way back into the match and Titans held on to complete a comfortable win. “We did not create much and they scored with two chances which were as a result of defensive lapses on our part,” MMU coach Vincent Adhiambo said. In the second tier men’s league, goals from Elijah Magiya and Paul Bakasa gave Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology (JKUAT) a 2-0 win over UoN, while Daystar University’s losing streak continued after they lost 4-1 to Thika Rovers.  
 