The dust is finally settling down over the Chan affair. We have accepted the trashy end and swallowed the insult. The president of Football Kenya Federation (FKF) has also assured us that he will not resign and was just joking Kenyan style when he blubbered about it. We knew he would not even attempt that folly in this land where even criminals do not give up and resign. We knew it all and we even advised him to stay put. We also knew that we will lose the hosting rights just instinctively because we know our country very intimately. Let the powers that be swallow the loss. They must have built hotels and other things required to milk money from the tournament but did very little to help the federation build the stadiums in time. The effect is that we should keep blaming the political situation for all our failings; we have a perfect scapegoat and we will not release it soon.  Our players will endure some ban in the near future and they will lose a lot in this art that is only practiced for a short while of the human life and then one retires at the age of 30 (if he is lucky enough not to pick up an injury). What worries me most is the fact that even before the ulcers of missing out on Chan are cured, Cecafa is already adding insult to injury. We stated before that we wish that anybody willing to bid for hosting anything in this country should be jailed. What we do not know is why Cecafa is endorsing us to host the 2017 Senior Challenge Cup slated for late November to December. Did someone bid for it?  Who is this person? Why is he not in a police cell answering questions about matters of national importance and image? It came as a real shock to us! Why are we being provoked by Cecafa? Do they hate us so much? These are questions that we cannot answer at the moment but later we will have the ability to see through them. The last time we hosted that tournament, some foreign players were locked up in a hotel since FKF had forgotten to pay the hotel. Those were dark times with some ogres at the helm of our football. We expected them to do that and, true enough, they did it in a well choreographed blunder. Those people are still alive and walk our streets sans shame. They are incapable of feeling that emotion. The regional Cecafa tourney was last held in 2015 in Rwanda. There was no country able to host the event in 2016 so this year they have decided to try us. The pitches that were being prepared for Chan are still looking like quarries.  We still cannot comprehend why those people are digging like moles but we know they will not be ready for a long time to come. All the same, we sure hope that we will not be shamed again. Try something please so that we can pat you on the back for once. 
 