Kabras Sugar are the inaugural Sepetuka Sevens champions after beating Kabeberi Sevens champions Impala Sevens champions 26-7 in the final at the Eldoret Sports Club on Sunday. Johnstone Muhanji crossed the try line first for the sugar millers, before Dominic Osino converted but their celebration did not last, after Kenya Simbas scrum-half Samson Onsomu played out Mark Kwemoi to score. Kwemoi returned with a conversion to level. Kabras swung back to the lead, when Osino weaved through to score their second try, but Brian Tanga failed to convert for a 12-7 lead. Tanga would turn the provider this time around to offload to Fidel Oloo, who landed between the sticks, as Osino converted.  With two minutes to the final hooter, Impala failed to capitalise on their numerical advantage when Malik Habil was sin-binned. Its Felix Ayange, who condemned the Sarries to more miseries, when he scored their fourth try as Kwemoi converted for Kabras’ first victory of the season. Kabras Sugar coach Charles Cardovillis said that he was happy with his players because they played well after good preparations. "I'm very happy to see my players play well in a tight match which was competitive. The boys had prepared themselves well for this contest," said Cardovillis, after his team finished third at Kabeberi and fifth at Driftwood and Prinsloo. In the first semi-final, Impala Saracens bundled out Driftwood champions Homeboyz, who are also the National Sevens Series champions 26-19, while Kabras crushed Oilers 39-0. Kwemoi sounded the early war drums, when he converted his won try, but Homeboyz responded through Bush Mwale, who touched down as Michael Wanjala converted to level the scores.  Onsomu restored Impala's confidence with a try, before Homeboyz levelled at 12-all, this time Humphrey Mulama doing the job.  But Mwale was sin-binned as Impala utilised their numerical advantage, grabbing a try that was converted by Kwemoi to take a lead at 19-12.  Impala were then awarded a penalty try they gleefully took for a 26-19 win to sail into the Main Cup final for the second time in this year's national sevens circuit.  In the other semi, Jacob Okumba proved the destroyer, touching down four tries that saw Kabras reach the final in this hotly-contested match.  Homeboyz finished in third after edging out Oilers 17-12 while Prinsloo Sevens champions KCB finished fifth after waylaying Western Bulls 25-10 in the play-off. Strathmore Leos claimed the Challenge Trophy after downing the University of Nairobi’s Mean Machine 24-17. 
 