The shilling could be headed for tough times with the political crisis deepening after the Supreme Court failed to hear a case on a postponement of a presidential re-run that has seriously hit the economy. The shilling fell to a two-month low of 103.80/90 on Tuesday, defying the central bank’s repeated efforts to stabilise it by selling dollars in the market and mopping up liquidity using repurchase agreements. Traders expect the shilling to remain under pressure from importers stockpiling on greenbacks when the market opens on Friday after two days of official break as the country heads to the ballot on Thursday. “If the pressure persists, the local currency could fall beyond the psychological 104 mark against the dollar next week,” a trader at a commercial bank told Business Daily. “If there is chaos, then we could be looking at new lows. It all depends on the political development.” Companies usually hold their cash in dollars ahead of elections to cushion themselves against unexpected eventualities. Kenya’s Supreme Court ruled on September 1 that the August 8 Presidential vote had been marred with irregularities that made it impossible to determine its integrity. It ordered a fresh one to be held in the next 60 days. READ: Kenya shilling falls to lowest since mid-August on election jitters Political divisions that saw the main opposition candidate, Raila Odinga withdraw from the re-run and a senior commissioner of the electoral body resign after fleeing the country, has dogged the October 26 vote, plunging the country into a political crisis and causing anxiety among investors. The political impasses in Kenya deepened further on Wednesday after a hearing by the apex court to determine if a fresh presidential election could go on was adjourned due to lack of quorum in the six- judge bench. Only two judges were available. The shilling, which has depreciated 1.4 per cent so far this year, has been fairly stable compared to commodity export-oriented African currencies such as Nigeria. Traders said the central bank has sold undisclosed amount of dollars in the foreign exchange market in the last few weeks to support the shilling and avoid volatility in the local currency as political temperatures hot up. “We expect to trend to continue depending on CBK’s interventions,” said another trader, adding that the 4.86 month import cover the regulator had in hard currencies gave it the muscle to support the shilling.  