It is October and lots of new movie releases are already up for an exhilarating thrill ride. Halloween is just a few weeks away and lots of horror flicks are slated for release. These include The Houses October Built 2 where five friends return to their deranged adventure of visiting haunted houses only to start reliving the Blue Skeleton terror from last Halloween.  Friend Request is another, where real horror on Facebook hits home offline as a popular college student's real friends begin dying cruel and mysterious deaths.  The beginning of October has also seen the release of the Flatliners, a unique exposition of horror where five medical students take their obsession of afterlife to a whole new level through experimental short-induced deaths and have to grapple with their past sins and trespassing into a paranormal world they probably should not.    Mental and vengeful terror in one night will also hit the cinemas on October 6th as Francis Ford Coppola's 1963 psycho macabre horror-thriller returns in Dementia 13, a remake by Richard LeMay where everyone in a family with a secret to hide collide with a lie-in-wait mysterious killer in a night of demented extents. Action and romance are also huge this October. Donnie Yen returns with Chasing the Dragon as Crippled Ho, a real-life don who arrives in 1963 Hong Kong and begins carving a ruthless empire for himself from a chaotic underworld ruled by corrupt cops and drug dealers. On October 20th, Arnold Schwarzenegger will be on in Killing Gunther as an infamous hitman who has etched his name in history pursued by undisciplined raw young assassins towing a docu-crew at gunpoint to undeniably prove they killed the best of assassins in a race where the hunter and the prey enter an action-packed living jumble.  Literally, Right Before Aaron is an interesting film released officially on September 29th and unfolding in October starring Justin Long, who must learn the hard truth of growing up after being invited to his ex-girlfriend’s wedding. He has to confront unresolved feelings and telling a girl he still has feelings for he is truly happy for her marital bliss. In A Question of Faith, God's love, mercy and grace will unreel as three families face a life-transforming tragedy.  October will definitely see lots of films coming to a film vender or cinema near you. Here are five that represent the best of what is already unfolding. TILL DEATH DO US PART   Annie Ilonzeh, Taye Diggs and Stephen Bishop star in a film that seems like an episode from Your Worst Nightmare night TV Series. Newlyweds Michael and Madison's happy perfect marriage bubble busts when the true controlling nature of Michael rears its ugly head. Madison flees and changes her identity, meets a new guy and falls in love. Stalking takes a whole new level as Madison comes face to face with her nightmarish abusive past.  BLADE RUNNER 2049    Ridley Scott's 1982 science fiction neo-noir dystopian film, Blade Runner is regarded as one of the best science fiction films to ever hit the big screen. Blade Runner 2049 is a sequel to the 1982 thriller and sees the return of Harrison Ford as Rick Deckard an LAPD blade runner who disappeared three decades ago. LAPD Officer K, played by Ryan Gosling must find the aging former blade runner if an already chaotic society is to be saved from total annihilation. Ridley Scott's 30 year-old film was primarily based on Philip K. Dick's post-apocalyptic science fiction novel of 1968, “Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?”  THE FOREIGNER    Martial arts and action junkies will be treated to steep action thrill that brings together Jackie Chan and Pierce Brosnan in a British-Chinese co-production. The film is an adaptation of Stephen Leather's 1992 novel, The Chinaman. Cast also includes Liu Tao, a prominent cast in the 2016 Chinese TV series, Ode to Joy.  Chinese London businessman Quan is thrown back into his past disposition when a politically instigated terror act takes his teenage daughter's life. The path of a British government official with a past that could unravel the evil crosses with Quan's in a characteristic Chan fashion whose only redacted mission is to identify the elusive killers.  BOO 2! A MADEA HALLOWEEN    In 2014's Top Five film starring Chris Rock, the mention of a contrived Madea Halloween film saw the creation of Boo! A Madea Halloween in 2016.  The tenth instalment of the Madea film series, Boo 2! is a comedy horror that follows the hilarious venture of Madea, Hattie and Bam in a haunted campground where the bogeyman, goblins and monsters have decided to make an entry.  THE MOUNTAIN BETWEEN US   While the film has already been premiered at the 2017 Toronto International Film Festival and the official release date moved up from 20th October to 6th, the mention of Idris Elba and Kate Winslet is sure enough to raise the interest and curiosity of any movie buff, particularly because the film is unapologetically romantic. Hany Abu-Assad directed romance-disaster film brings together a surgeon (Elba) and journalist (Winslet) who ignore stormy weather warning and flight cancellation to charter a plane. A tragic plane crash follows and the two survive, injured and beaten by extreme weather in the High Uintas Wilderness. Through a hazardous journey of hundreds of miles the two must discover new strength in the merciless wilderness in a performance that balances a tear-jerking brazen love story and gripping chemistry from two seasoned English actors.  SAME KIND OF DIFFERENT AS ME    Pure Flix brings together an ensemble cast of Greg Kinnear, Renée Zellweger, Djimon Hounsou and Jon Voight in a film where an art dealer is compelled to befriend an unsafe homeless man in a move aimed at salvaging what is left of a struggling marriage. His wife's dream will lead the three in an incredible journey that will change their life considerably.  
  
It is October and lots of new movie releases are already up for an exhilarating thrill ride