Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui has kicked out all the 10 executives who worked under his predecessor Kinuthia Mbugua, paving the way for a new Cabinet. On Thursday, the county boss forwarded a list of 10 nominated executives to the county assembly for vetting, which is scheduled for next week. In an apparent move to fulfil his pledge of establishing a development-oriented cabinet, Mr Kinyanjui nominated his close aide Raymond Komen Kimutai for the position of county executive for Education, ICT and e-government. READ: Report reveals rot in Nakuru health sector HEALTHMr Kimutai was the chief of staff under Mr Mbugua’s administration before he was sacked under controversial circumstances. Also making the list is Dr Jonah Manjari Mwangi, a former Health executive in the Kiambu County Government. He was picked for the health docket. Dr Mwangi is coming at a time when a health task force appointed by Mr Kinyanjui has released its findings that paint a gloomy picture of the sector. LANDSWhile releasing the names, Mr Kinyanjui said Dr Mwangi is a resident of Nakuru County and hails from Naivasha. Another notable nominee is Dr Immaculate Njuthe Maina, the Kenya Agricultural and Livestock Research Organisation director at the Njoro Food Centre. Dr Maina is a nominee for the critical Agriculture docket. The head of Health, Safety and Environment for western Kenya at the Kenya Pipeline Company, Ms Lucy Wanjiku Kariuki, is the nominee for the Lands, Housing and Physical Planning docket. NOMINEESTurkana deputy county commissioner Lawrence Mwangangi Mwania has been named the next executive for Public Service, Training and Devolution. The former chief executive officer of Britam Insurance Company and Real Insurance Company, Mr Joseph Wainaina Kiuna, has been nominated for the position of Finance and Economic Planning executive. Others are Mr Joseph Irungu Mburu (Infrastructure), Ms Halima Gababa Abdullahi (Youth, Culture, Gender, Sports and Social Service), Mr Festus Ng’eno (Water, Environment, Energy and Natural Resources), Dr Peter Evans Kiplangat (Trade, Industry, Marketing and Tourism). “I hope that within reasonable time, the assembly will approve the list so that we can start working for Wanjiku,” Mr Kinyanjui said. He said for the sake of inclusivity and gender balance, the list is composed of three women and three members from minority communities.  