GROWING PAPAYAS I am planning to grow pawpaws but the sample of soil I sent for testing did not give me a clear guide. My farm is in Nyando, Kisumu.  I have prepared a nursery for Solo-sunrise variety. Kindly guide me on soil fertility requirements and management. Solomon Papayas can grow in a variety of soil types. The most critical requirement is drainage. Poor drainage leads to the development of root-rot problems.  A porous loam or sandy loam soil with a pH range of 5.0 to 7.0 (optimum is 5.5–6.5), is the most preferred for papaya production. Fertiliser: Fertilisation regimes for papaya should be based on soil analysis, preferably foliar analysis. In general, production in sandy loam soils requires a pre-plant application of 0.5kg of 5:7:4 compound fertiliser and 0.25kg of superphosphate per plant.  Post-plant application of 100g per plant of 10:2:16 fertiliser can also be given at 2-3 month intervals. In the second year, about 250g/plant can be given.  Weed management: Hand weeding, especially around young seedlings, is beneficial. Mowing and mulching are often practised on mature trees.  Plastic mulch is very effective against broad-leaved weeds but ineffective on perennial grasses and sedges. Post-emergence herbicides such as Paraquat and Glyphosate are also used.  Cover-cropping can also be done in papaya.Irrigation: Low soil moisture in papayas tends to shift the sex type to male resulting in lower fruit yields, while high moisture levels can lead to excessive production of misshaped fruits with rapid tree growth. Under rain-fed conditions, a minimum of 100mm per month is needed.  Where rainfall falls short, irrigation is required to avoid the sex reversal tendency of the plant. Good production occurs with 60-90l/tree/week immediately after planting or during the wet season and 120–240l/tree/week during the dry period. Carol Mutua, Department of Crops, Horticulture, and Soils, Egerton University. **** FARMING YELLOW PASSION FRUITS I am interested in growing yellow passion on a small-scale though in Murang’a County. Kindly advice on how to go about it. Eunine Muturi For the information on growing of yellow passion, I recommend you contact Kalro-Thika, just in your neighbourhood that will help you with sufficient information on crop agronomy and the related technical information.    You can reach them on 020-20550038 or email- director.hri@kalro.org.  Tom C. Owino, Department of Crops, Horticulture, and Soils, Egerton University. **** I HAVE 13 ACRES, WHAT SHOULD I DO ON IT? My name is Harrison Karanja, an accountant who took early retirement from formal employment, joining the informal sector in 2011. I have two parcels of land acquired partly through bank loans.  These land, 10 acres and three acres, are in the Moi Ndabi, Naivasha. I am seeking advice and linkages to persons or organisations that may offer me guidance and professional advice in determining the most suitable and profitable ventures to undertake.  I have been toying with horticulture – fruits and vegetables, hay and even pyrethrum and bamboo and eucalyptus. However, there are challenges like determining the suitability of the soil, rainfall failure, which necessitates finding a solution in water supply.  You have a wonderful vision that can be realised on your 13 acres in Naivasha. Profitable agribusiness must be backed by constant and reliable supply of water that is suitable for irrigation, among other things.  On suitability of your soils for crop production, I suggest you do soil testing once you have identified the enterprises. It appears you are passionate about horticulture and crop production. I suggest you send me an email at chs@egerton.ac.ke for further advice.  Tom C. Owino, Department of Crops, Horticulture, and Soils, Egerton University.  **** POTATO GROWING What kind of seeds are the best for potatoes and where can I acquire them? Also, where can I get a complete business plan to start a potato value addition small-scale industry? Moses Potatoes are in two types namely, Irish potatoes and sweet potatoes. You need to clarify the type you are interested in. Kindly provide your location because of variety specific agro-ecological requirements.    The business plan can be provided once the other clarifications are made. Tom C. Owino, Department of Crops, Horticulture, and Soils, Egerton University.  **** BECOMING POTATO SEED PRODUCER We are a group of potato farmers from Loitokitok, Kajiado. Please advise us on how we can become seed producers. Advise on the conditions to be met before we are recognised by Ministry of Agriculture. Seed potato production is a highly specialised operation done by very few institutions in the country. Farmers contracted for seed production have their fields inspected and approved by Kephis for production.  The government agency that is directly concerned with field production of seed potato is Agricultural Development Corporation.  Seek further guidance from ADC-Molo (0721202565-adcmolo@gmail.com); and Kephis regional office (0709891000, Email: kephisinfo@kephis.org) that deals with Kajiado County for further advice. Tom C. Owino, Department of Crops, Horticulture, and Soils, Egerton University.  **** WHERE TO BUY SUNFLOWER Please let me know where I can buy sunflower for my small oil processing factory. Steven You didn’t indicate your location. However, send an email to bodero@wefi.co.ke for further direction. Tom C. Owino, Department of Crops, Horticulture and Soils, Egerton University. 
  
Ask the experts any questions on farming and agri-business through: satnation@ke.nationmedia.com