Defending champions Tusker further complicated their already dim chances of retaining the SportPesa Premier League title after battling to a barren draw with Kariobangi Sharks in a midweek match at Ruaraka Grounds. At the Kericho Green Stadium, Zoo Kericho settled for a 2-2 draw with Nzoia Sugar Sugar in a thrilling match while relegation-threatened Western Stima also drew 1-1 with visiting Nakumatt at Moi Stadium in Kisumu. The result at Ruaraka, which mirrored the outcome from their first leg meeting in Machakos, left the brewers in seventh place on 40 points, 20 adrift of runaway leaders Gor Mahia with seven matches to the end of the season. Tusker midfielder Humphrey Mieno hit the upright in the 35th minute while teammates Danson Kago, Lloyd Wahome and Michael Khamati wasted numerous chances after the break. Despite dropping points on their home turf, the brewers head coach George Nsimbe believes the league holders can finish among the top three this season. "It was a very tactical match. We wasted chances but we will improve on our next assignment," said the under-fire Ugandan. Kariobangi Sharks, who welcomed back Masoud Juma and Pattilah Omotto from International duty with Harambee Stars, had their own fair share of chances with Masoud and Cavin Odongo going close.Sharks head coach William Muluya said he's satisfied with the team's performance. "A win would have been good for us but our opponents were very tactical. We now focus on the next game," said Muluya. Sharks, who take on AFC Leopards in the GOtv final on October 20, lie fourth on the log. In Kisumu, substitute Boniface Akenga struck a last-gasp equaliser as Nakumatt rallied from behind to draw 1-1 with Stima in a charged match.  Brian Marita had given the hosts the lead midway through the second half before Akenga struck with seconds to stoppage time to deny Stima what would have been a vital win in the quest to beat the chop. At the Green Stadium in Kericho, Geoffrey Gichana salvaged a point for the hosts with a late equaliser in the thrilling encounter which witnessed an eventful opening half. Veteran midfielder Lawrence Juma gave Bernard Mwalala’s side the lead at the half hour mark before Danson Namasaka restored parity two minutes to the break. Skipper Vincent Ngesa then gave Nzoia the lead again at the stroke of half-time before Gichana ensured the two sides share the spoils with a late equaliser. KPL RESULTS Tusker 0-0 Kariobangi Sharks Western Stima 1-1 Nakumatt Zoo Kericho 2-2 Nzoia Sugar 
 