SportPesa Premier League side Posta Rangers, in partnership with Lotto Foundation, on Friday donated playing kits to Pumwani-based Ainsworth Primary School.  The team, in the presence of Starehe Member of Parliament Charles Kanyi, popularly known as “Jaguar” also oversaw the renovation of the school’s pre-unit classes and social hall. Lotto chief executive officer Brian Waluchio later handed over a Sh15 million shillings cheque to the team at a Nairobi hotel. “We joined Posta with a condition that the team should be involved in community service because Lotto’s aim is to change lives of people. We’ve spent over 400 million in supporting various projects across the country,” Waluchio said. “In the near future, we shall engage our staff in educating Posta players on finance management. In as much as we invest in sports, we also take part in educating the public and that’s the reason we’ve helped in providing a conducive environment for Ainsworth pupils by renovating the school premises.” Posta chairman John Tonui assured their co-sponsors that the team is motivated to finish among the top three. “Our performance has been top notch since you joined us and we can assure you that we shall finish in the top three to give you a reason to continue supporting us,” said Tonui, whose team entered into a three-year deal worth Sh45 million with the firm in January. Speaking at the event, Kanyi thanked the team and Lotto for helping fulfil one of his campaign agenda of improving education in his constituency. “I must acknowledge Lotto and Posta for their initiative. They have not only helped in renovation of the social hall and classes but also built bridges in Makadara and Mukuru. There’s no precious gift to children than improving their education. I feel honoured to have engineered this partnership,” he said. The Sammy ‘Pamzo’ Omollo-led team played the local area team in a seven-minute exhibition match at the school’s astro turf ground.   Lotto also sponsors four-time Kenyan champions Ulinzi Stars through their brand Elitebet.  
 