Hi Mr Kitoto, I am in dilemma; last year I broke up with my boyfriend because of my boss, who is married. I have been in a relationship with my boss even as I was dating my boyfriend in revenge after he cheated on me with my friend. Though he suspected that I was having an affair, I made sure that he never got any evidence. Before we broke up, I got pregnant but miscarried at three months as a result of high blood pressure. I sank into depression but luckily, I recovered after my sister took me for counselling. I also decided to end the affair with my boss even though he kept pursuing me and telling almost everyone that I am his. Since I no longer wanted to date for the sake of it, I turned to God to help me find the right man. I met this guy who truly loves and cares a lot about me. However, my boss found out that I was dating and threatened to fire me if I didn’t end the relationship. I love my boyfriend so much that I can’t bear losing him but I’m in a fix since my boss has given me two weeks to end my relationship, or lose my job, yet I am my family’s breadwinner. Please advise me what to do.  Hi,Although it is regrettable that an innocent baby’s life was terminated because of wrong choices, I am sure that your decision to seek God’s help is the best way to go. I trust that you can take time to deal with the baggage from your past and get the sobriety you need to live the life that God intends for you. What you should not do is seek refuge in another relationship before you truly heal. Your self-confidence must be found in your new relationship with God. It will be unfortunate if, in future, either your previous or current boyfriend starts preying on your vulnerabilities. You have to face the past and present issues in your life in such a way that they do not come back to haunt you. First, you must end your relation with your boss once and for all. Sadly, this might involve negative consequences. Remember, when you became vengeful towards your first boyfriend, it ended up in a pregnancy. Do not leave any opportunity now for someone to use a job to mistreat you. Stand your ground no matter what! Secondly, ensure that your current relationship did not start out of a desire to prove a point to your former boyfriend. You can only accept the consequences of any choice if you can convince yourself of the need to live right. Threats of being sacked should not scare you back into an unhealthy union. The issue here is what you are willing to lose. Another bad relationship or a new life of freedom? Be honest with yourself on this because your future depends on it. Also, try to ensure that the current relationship is built on sincere, trusting and open dialogue. You must ensure that you were actually ready for it, and that it did not come about as the result of a necessity to fill a vacuum. For additional help, seek out a mature, godly woman who can walk with you. If you cannot find one, look for a mature counsellor. All the best.  Send your relationship questions to dn2@ke.nationmedia.com  