Clerics in Nyanza have petitioned Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet to investigate the killings of anti-IEBC protestors in the region. Led by the Nyanza Council of Church Leaders Chairman Bishop Washington Ogonyo-Ngede, Joab Othatcher (secretary) and Julius Otieno Oloo (vice-chairman), they issued an ultimatum to the IG and accused police of using excessive force on the protestors. ARREST SUSPECTS “If the demonstrations are going out of hand, the police should chase them away from the Central Business District where they are not needed and not to follow them up to their areas of residence, breaking doors and beating them,” Bishop Ndege said on Wednesday. The clerics said the police should arrest those breaking the law during the peaceful demonstrations and arraign such suspects in court “instead of killing them.” They were reacting to last week’s killings of three protestors in Bondo and the Vihiga High School student shot dead in Kisumu on Monday. “We condemn such acts of extra-judicial killings by the anti-riot police,” Rev Othatcher stated. DEMOS Bishop Oloo said the police should protect lives and property and not to “murder innocent protestors.” “We also appeal to the youths and the demonstrators to do so peacefully in accordance to the law,” added Bishop Ngede. He cautioned youth against barricading the roads and burning tyres and challenged the Independent Policing Oversight Authority (Ipoa) to launch a probe into the killings, attacks and destruction of property by anti-riot police in Kisumu. They spoke as Kisumu Governor Anyang’ Nyong’o said destruction of property and killings by the police were uncalled for. FALLEN HEROES “While demonstrating peacefully, we must make sure saboteurs who steal or destroy property are not tolerated,” said the governor.  Nasa had suspended their weekly anti-IEBC protests pushing for reforms in the electoral commission and set Friday as a day to mourn the “fallen heroes.” Nasa flag bearer Raila Odinga said Kenyans will not celebrate Mashujaa Day on Friday but will instead mourn those killed during the protests and condole with the bereaved families. 
  
CS Fred Matiang'i said only criminals were killed.