The search for victims of the Saturday helicopter crash in Lake Nakuru for the second day Sunday failed to yield much, with the recovery team only managing to retrieve some parts of the aircraft, 24 hours later. The search was called off at 6.30pm  and will resume on Monday. The rescue team comprises Kenya Navy, Kenya Police, Kenya Wildlife Service (KWS) and the Kenya Forest Service officers. Divers from Naivasha scoured the lake from the north-eastern side. The government has been criticised for the delayed recovery operation. The campaign chopper had five people on board, including three members of Nakuru Senator Susan Kihika’s communication team — Mr Sam Gitau, Mr John Mapozi and Mr Anthony Kipyegon — and Ms Veronicah Kamau, as well as the pilot, Mr Apollo Malowa.  They are all feared dead. FRAGMENTED PARTS At around 11:30am Sunday fragmented parts of the helicopter were found and taken to shore. The pilot’s file and First Aid kits were found on the shore of the north eastern part of the lake, near a sewer in Lake Nakuru National Park. By the time of going to press, Mr Jonathan Kertich, an officer at the National Disaster Operation Centre, confirmed that no bodies had been recovered yet. However, he indicated that the search team had marked six spots within the lake where they hope to find the bodies. Mr Kertich said some oil spills had been traced in the lake by search choppers and were a crucial lead. The Kenya Red Cross Society, under its Rift Valley office led by Mr Michael Ayeibei, said it had started offering counselling to the affected families. A tent had already been set up on the shores of the lake. So far, more than 30 members of the affected families have gone through counselling, said Red Cross officials. RESCUE UNIT Another tent had been set up at the recovery area with experts from the Kenya Counselling and Psychological Association on standby. A senior warden at the park, Mr Samuel Tokore, said an accident in the waters was unforeseen thus the lack of a rescue unit. “The only other incident that required disaster management was in 1963 when another plane crashed in the lake,” he said. Mr Tokore said KWS has a boat based in Naivasha, which only goes to Lake Nakuru for water research. Family members and friends of the victims, who were at the park as early as 6am, stood helplessly on the shores of the lake and watched the search and recovery teams carry out their operation. Mr William Ngugi, Mr Gitau’s father, said he had lost his only son and an important pillar of the family. He said he learnt of the devastating news when he received a call from his aunt on Saturday morning. BIRTHDAY PARTY “My son was a jovial man. During his grandmother’s burial two weeks ago, he bought soft drinks and food for everyone in attendance. We are sad that we are mourning another person in the family,” said Mr Ngugi. Mr John Waweru, Mr Gitau’s cousin, said the two had made plans for the remainder of the year and were to meet on Mashujaa Day, but were forced to postpone their meeting to next week. “I wonder what he wanted to discuss with me now that we did not meet,” said a distraught Mr Waweru. Another of Mr Gitau’s cousin, Ms Grace Wambui, said he was planning a birthday party for his nephews and nieces who were still coming to terms with his death. “We are in disbelief but it is the Lord’s doing. May his soul rest in peace,” she said. NAIVASHA On Saturday, rescue efforts were delayed for more than eight hours as equipment and personnel were brought in from Naivasha and Mombasa, respectively. The first rescue team from the Kenya Navy and KWS arrived at 4pm and received backup on Sunday. Leaders attending the National Prayer Day at Afraha stadium, led by Senate Majority Leader Kipchumba Murkomen condoled with Ms Kihika. Nasa leader Raila Odinga also sent a message of condolence to the families on Sunday.   Some of the wreckage were found on the Northeastern part of the shore.