Leaders in Mt Kenya have rolled out a multi-million-shillings voter turnout campaign targeting regional voters who may need to travel.  The leaders from Murang’a, Laikipia and Meru counties are offering free transport to polling centres.  Murang’a Senator Irungu Kang’ata has rolled out a free transport programme for all voters who reside in Nairobi but are registered voters in his county.  MOBILISEThe senator says the programme will start on October 26 from 5am to 2pm, targeting 50, 000 voters who live in Nairobi to enable them to participate in the repeat presidential poll.  He explained that he will be present at Koinange Road stage by 5am and will personally oversee the exercise until 2pm. About 70,000 people from the county did not vote during the August 8 General Election while National Super Alliance (Nasa) leader Raila Odinga got 10,000 votes there.  TURNOUTHe said he has initiated the programme to ensure every registered voter participates in the repeat poll and that they vote for President Uhuru Kenyatta. “I was aggrieved by the Supreme Court ruling and, to express my anger, I will use my resources to provide transport to residents who did not participate on August 8, so that the judges who nullified our win know that we are tired of Raila Odinga,” the senator told the Daily Nation. Jubilee leaders in Meru and Laikipia are planning to hire vehicles to ferry voters in an effort to increase voter turnout on October 26. POLLING STATIONIn Laikipia, more than 1,000 women will also be deployed in each of the 531 polling centres to identify and reach out to voters who do not turn up to vote by 2pm. Each polling station will have two women allied to Jubilee who will make arrangements for them to be ferried to cast their ballots. Laikipia leaders led by Woman Rep Catherine Waruguru and Governor Ndiritu Muriithi said on Monday that vehicles and boda bodas will be on standby to ferry more than 40,000 people who did not take part in the August 8 election. “Voters in the villages know each other and the women brigade will assist in identifying those who will not have voted four hours to the closure of the station. They will then ferry them to the polling centres,” Governor Muriithi said while addressing about 1,500 women at Sportman’s Arms Hotel in Nanyuki. FINANCEIn Meru, Lands CS Jacob Kaimenyi said local leaders had put measures in place to ensure those who are sick or disabled are ferried to polling stations. “We urge those who have vehicles to ferry voters to polling stations so that everyone can vote.  "We are ready to offer our vehicles to transport the sick. We are appealing for selfless service by all residents to make the turnout better,” Prof Kaimenyi said after meeting local leaders in Meru town. North Imenti MP Rahim Dawood has also pledged to finance transportation of voters who will be far from their polling stations. 
 