Former skipper Collins Obuya on Friday shone with the bat knocking half a century but that did not stop Netherlands from beating Kenya in their ICC World Cricket League Championship match by six wickets at Buffalo Park, East London, South Africa. Obuya’s 72 runs came off 77 deliveries with two boundaries and four sixes. He top-scored for the Kenyans who were put in to bat first by the Dutch.  Kenya set a target of 227 runs in their allotted 50 overs for the loss of seven wickets. Dhiren Gondaria also knocked half a ton (53 off 60 balls with six boundaries and a six).  Captain Rakep Patel (29 off 47 balls with four boundaries) was the other batsman who posted double digit figures on the scoreboard. Obuya shared a sixth wicket partnership of 117 runs with Nelson Odhiambo (39 off 62 balls with three boundaries), the best stand for the side. The partnership was broken when Timm Gugten (2/58) had Odhiambo caught by Paul Meekeren. Kenya started their innings on a sour note when their opening batsman, Irfan Karim was trapped leg before wicket by Kingma for three with a score of five showing on the scoreboard. His opening partner, Alex Obanda did not fare any better as he lost his wicket cheaply to Gugten, who had him caught by Meekeren for five. Gurdeep Singh (6), Shem Ngoche 1 not out and Nelson Odhiambo, who was 2 not out, were the other batsmen who did not post meaningful figures on the scoreboard. Michael Rippon was Kenya’s main executioner with three wickets for 30. Kingma (1/25) and Meekeren (1/38) were the other wicket takers. REACHED TARGET In reply the Dutch reached the target, 227 with six wickets and seven balls in hand. Peter Borren was Dutch’s highest runs getter with unbeaten 86 that came off 98 balls with eight boundaries.  He shared a winning fifth wicket stand of 132 with Rippon who was unbeaten on 56 off 74 deliveries with three boundaries. Wesley Barresi (25 off 49 balls three fours) and Ben Cooper (24 off 25 balls with four boundaries) also did well with the bat. Kenya’s wicket takers were Ngoche (2/47), Pushpak Kerai (1/22) and Odhiambo (1/35). The two teams meet again on Sunday at the same venue in their last game. Kenya was supposed to host the two 50-over matches at the Nairobi Gymkhana but concerns raised by the Dutch about safety issues in Nairobi made the ICC decided to move the matches to East London. 
 