Access to medicine is a big challenge in most of the African countries. This can be attributed to, among other factors, the ineffective medicine regulatory systems on the continent. Throughout Africa, the governments have over the years invested heavily in systems to ensure the availability of safe and efficacious medicines to the public. In some countries, these regulatory systems have worked quite well, but in others, the regulations have, to a certain extent, been a hindrance to the timely delivery of medicines to those who need them. Also, rigorous requirements in some countries have increased the complexity and decreased the ease of access to medicines without a commensurate increase in oversight due to the fragmented approach to regulation. It is against this background that the African Medicines Regulatory Harmonisation (AMRH) initiative has envisioned the formation of the Africa Medicines Agency (AMA) to guarantee more streamlined regulations across the continent. PUBLIC HEALTH This, AMRH hopes, will not only safeguard public health, but will also eliminate the barriers that hinder timely access to the medicines. Typically, the manufacturers of pharmaceutical products and other health technologies have to contend with satisfying regulatory requirements, which range from sound manufacturing practices, documentation, post approval changes, and clinical trials, to labelling. Coupled with the multiple individual country requirements, this greatly hampers access to health products. With the AMRH initiative, the African Union, through Nepad, is spearheading a systematic review of all the existing regulations to establish convergence and harmonise requirements in order to have one health authority for the whole continent. This is being driven through the regional economic blocs (RECs). Ultimately, AMRH hopes to have one standard product for the continent. In addition, this is premised on the fact that medicines regulation should follow the scientific approach as opposed to the current more administrative process. SCIENTIFIC EVIDENCE This would allow for more utilisation of the scientific evidence generated elsewhere, arriving at regulatory decisions by the individual countries. It is expected that a shift to a more scientific approach would be driven through such approaches as work-sharing among health authorities, reliance practices and collaboration  as well as the utilisation of risk-based approaches to arrive at sound regulatory decisions fast. The benefits abound not only for the patients, but also for the industry, health agencies and other stakeholders. Harmonised regulations will also help realise more efficient use of the often scarce regulatory resources required by the various countries. Harmonised regulations will not only ensure faster access to new and innovative health products, but in the long run will safeguard reliable and sustainable supply chain ensuring that there is good level of predictability of medicines supply. MARKET CONTROL Harmonised regulations will also guarantee market control and ensure that only quality and safe medicines are available to patients. It is also expected that the pooling of markets will trigger local and regional investments in the manufacture of essential health products. This paints a picture of a well-functioning system. However, for this to really work, a lot would be expected of all involved stakeholders. A lot of learning from other jurisdictions would prove to be very helpful. An early and all-inclusive approach bringing all stakeholders on board will greatly add value to AMA initiative. INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY There will be requirements to actively look for the areas of synergy and collaboration among the existing health authorities as well as massive utilisation of information technology as one of the key pillars for the envisaged work sharing among the regulatory agencies. However, all the benefits that are expected to accrue will not happen in the absence of political goodwill. Therefore, the leadership at the African Union as well as the RECs is called upon to keep up the support for the AMRH initiative. Dr Mwangi is the acting executive secretary, Kenya Association of Pharmaceutical Industry (Kapi). john.mwangi@bayer.com  