West Pokot Governor John Lonyangapuo has directed workers in the devolved unit to dress properly. He said it was difficult to tell some employees from criminals because of their dressing. “Every man must be in a tie from 8am to 5pm. The same applies to drivers because they are the face of their bosses. "Workers can easily be mistaken for criminals and arrested. We want you to be neat,” Prof Lonyangapuo told the more than 3,000 county workers in Kapenguria on Saturday. DECENCYHe asked health workers to be in uniform always. “They should put on their white uniforms and have stethoscopes. This can even make patients recover fast,” he said. The governor gave a total of Sh10,000 to 10 drivers dressed in ties. “Women employees should put on ‘acceptable’ attire. Even my driver Jacob is not in a tie yet he should lead by example,” he added. WORKERSProf Lonyangapuo said he would change the grey uniform donned by county enforcement officers because “it is not appealing to the eye”. He added that revenue collectors would be required to have badges and yellow dust coats. Many county workers have heeded the directive, though the order attracted mixed reactions among them. Another said he would abide by the Prof Lonyangapuo’s decree. “I have started dressing as required though I’m not used to ties. It is okay but casual workers and those who operate machines should be exempted from the order,” he said. CONDUCTMr Jeffery Wero, a new employee, said the directive would bring sanity and order in the county workforce. Prof Lonyangapuo cautioned workers against corruption, laziness and absenteeism, urging them to be guided by the code of conduct. “The time for politics is over. We shall supply 5,000 copies of the code of conduct to everyone soon,” the governor said. AUDIT He asked the employees to read his manifesto. “We shall make copies of the manifesto and distribute to workers,” he said. Prof Lonyangapuo said his administration would audit the county assets. “Executives shamed the former governor by enriching themselves. They will carry their cross,” he said.  