The world is developing at a dizzying pace, with innovations breaking the frontiers of everything imaginable. With these great breakthroughs, businesses and governments are reconfiguring and more powerful and aloof. However, a huge part of the global population is always left to its own devices. Strong governments and wealthy multinationals more often than not will pursue interests — political power and profits — that ignore or disenfranchise the poor. CONCERNSThe mundane but very crucial needs of the ordinary person, ranging from basic sanitation to the right cooking materials, and climate dangers to food safety always take a back seat. While we know that in the doctrine of the social contract, the state ought to meet its obligations of ensuring citizens live in dignity and security, it never always happens. This could be because of an honest budgetary constraint, apathy, ignorance or competing priorities. And that is how civil society comes into the mix to voice society concerns and draw the attention of corporates and governments to meeting their social justice obligations. PARTNERSHIPSSadly, this civil society role is often misunderstood. There is a whole lot of organisations that are critical in the social eco-system of things that silently, but powerfully, help our society to forge forward. We need to encourage and celebrate them. Thousands of civil society organisations operate at the grassroots. Civil society is also working with the private sector, and the government to contribute to new solutions to socio-economic challenges. ADVOCACYTake the example of the partners we indulge at SNV through the Voice for Change Partnership programme, implemented with the International Food Policy Research Institute and the Dutch Government. To create an effective sector, at SNV we are promoting advocacy where organisations are empowered to collect the right data, process and develop evidence for an enabling environment in selected sectors. We work in four critical areas, namely renewable energy specifically on clean cook-stoves, sanitation, resilience in climatic variations, especially in among pastoralists, and food and nutrition security. MARKETSThe objective is to ensure that citizens enjoy access to basic services such as sanitation and enjoy good quality milk and vegetables of the same standard as what is exported. For example, about 20 per cent of Kenya’s fresh vegetables meet rigorous Euro good agricultural practices and other set global standards for Western markets. The challenge is how bring the more than 70 per cent of fresh vegetables consumed domestically to the defined national standard. By working closely with the regulators, value chain actors and county governments, civil society organisations are facilitate pilots for traceability of produce from the farm gate to retail markets. AWARENESS Whereas it is possible to operationalise the traceability of fresh foods with the organised retailers, it is more complex for the informal markets. It’s crucial to create awareness with farmers and the Agriculture ministry on safe production methods and with consumers to demand quality products. But this can only happen if we strengthen the civil society voice. The project generates evidence through research agencies that strengthens negotiation. Thus, civil society should be able to set the agenda for discourse and action. CHALLENGES The actors must have the capacity to distil through myth and facts, to research and gather unimpeachable data, negotiate and lobby. This explains why peasants who have been toiling on the land for decades after independence have not improved their lot, nor do we have a sound infrastructure for water and sanitation. The environment continues to suffer amid blatant defilement of water catchment and riparian land; and fruits and vegetable sold off a pavement in the urban centres; and adulteration of milk has become norm. SOLUTION Every village has a story. The list of challenges eating our society is endless thus the need for continuous engagement with all stakeholders. To drive this agenda, and voice for the common person is civil society. The voice of civil society is more desirable than ever, a voice that raises concern where the authority does not see or does not want to see. It’s an approach, which offers a win-win situation for the masses, private sector and even governments. We are proud of the new initiative in the civil society realm through the Voices for Change. Ms Njuguna is the head of agriculture at the Netherlands Development Organisation –SNV. mnjuguna@snv.org  