My chicks turned 18 weeks few days ago, and one thing I was keen to know was their weight.  I had instructed my farm manager to weigh a few cocks and hens every Friday for the last four months, and last week was no exception.  So when I got to the farm, Caleb immediately handed me a sheet of paper on which he’d recorded this information.  There were two rows, one for the hens and the other one for the cocks. I interrupted him almost as soon as he began reading out the weights in grams: “1,629, 1519, 1457, 1285, 1614, 1223, 1455, 1504, 1316 and 1260.”  I was concerned that the weights were too low. “Are they for the hens or cocks?” I enquired.   When he said they were for the hens, I was delighted. Okay, generally, cocks should weigh more than hens.  The average weight for the cocks and hens was 1,800g and 1,426g respectively.  I’ve been told several times by experts that a hen will only lay eggs after it has attained an average weight of 1.5kg. When the feeds are of poor quality, weight gain is poor and the laying is also delayed.   You see, besides investing in a good breed, controlling diseases and offering the birds quality home-made feeds, I control the amount of light that I expose the hens to.  This way, I’m able to stimulate the onset of their sexual maturity.   For sure, the timing of light stimulation in layers determines other things like the age at which the hens start laying eggs, the number of eggs, their size and consistency of laying throughout the laying cycle.  If you recall, at week five of age (Seeds of Gold, July 29), I’d decreased the light hours (step-down) from 24 to 8 hours. Therefore, as soon as the chicken hit 18 weeks, it was time to ‘step-up’.   One challenge I had during light step-down at five weeks was that I couldn’t get my chicken coop totally dark inside and some light would still penetrate through the doors and ventilation.   EARLIER THAN EXPECTED According to experts, a proper light management programme should ensure that no light penetrates into the coop during the mandated 16 hour darkening period between week eight to 18 (the so-called ‘step-down’) as this stimulates physiological maturity of the birds prematurely.    In fact, there’s benefit in stepping-down the light hours from week five even in countries like Kenya with 12-hour daylight throughout the year.     Believe me, studies have shown that when birds raised in an open house pullet barn but restricted to only eight-hour day length were then transferred to an open layer house, they came into production two weeks earlier than expected.   In my case, because I couldn’t keep the chicken coop totally dark inside during this critical period, the birds were practically exposed to a 12-hour day light instead of eight.   Another thing I’ve ensured is that the timing of light stimulation corresponds to the weight of the hens.  Do not attempt light stimulation until the birds have attained the optimum body weight (around 17 to 19 weeks) of about 1.5kg.  I’ve also read that flocks which are light-stimulated into production at an early age or before attaining appropriate  body weight (‘quick step-down/step-up’), will likely produce more eggs per hen but of smaller sizes compared to those that are stimulated at older age (slow step-down, step-up) which produce less eggs per hen but of greater weight. In my case, I’m raising parent stock to sell fertile eggs and hatch chicks for sell, and as such, I will use the slow step-down, step-up programme to get bigger eggs (see chart left).  What that means is that I’ll be exposing the hens to one extra light hour every fortnightly until they attain 26 weeks (see table above).    Again, once I’ve attained the maximum light stimulation (16 hours), I’ll have to maintain that throughout the entire production cycle.   
  
Farmer is happy to learn his long time taxi driver is also a committed poultry keeper despite his tough schedule.