One cannot fully grasp the significance of a jockey like Frankie Dettori becoming the most successful jockey in Qatar Prix de L’Arc de Triomphe history, at a ripe old age of 46.  Enable brought him his fifth title this week, but it was actually the easiest ever. There is no point in getting older if you do not keep improving beyond human limits. Frankie has been through plenty downers in his life, but always bounced back to the top. The Triomphe is such a spectacular race internationally, and, will soon be resuming its former glory at Lomgchamp, rather than Chantilly.  Apparently, massive renovations are underway to ensure perfect luxury for all patrons.   The actual race had eighteen viable candidates, with Ballydoyle’s front-running pair, Idaho and Order of St George, seeking some air-time, before Enable was released by Frankie, two furlongs out.  FLOATED That sealed the 96th Arc. Enable simply floated away for trainer, John Gosden, as Cloth of Stars and Ulysses ran respectable places, never endangering Enable in her own little world. Remember Frankie's eccentricity and brilliance on Golden Horn in 2015?  Enable was testament to Khaled Abdullah as an owner-breeder.  Educated in France, Khaled has always been a big supporter of French racing.   Having eclipsed the likes of Freddy Head, Yves Saint-Martin, Pat Eddery, and Olivier Peslier, all of whom won it four times, Dettori enjoyed his achievement, but Enable's effortlessness helped considerably. There were no losing jockeys’ hard luck stories. Mickael Barzalona on Cloth of Stars said everything had gone swimmingly for him. Echoing those sentiments, Jim Crowley, who went on to win the Prix de L’Abbaye on Battaash, later in the day, said he had latched on to Enable’s tail from the start, but that was it. SATONO DIAMOND Fifty members of the Japanese media who faithfully followed Satono Diamond to Europe, did return home disappointed.  They have had the runner-up on five occasions in the past, but Satono Diamond did not add his name to their list of heroic failures. He pretty much ended near the back.  Meanwhile, Jockey Mario Chavez was riding Fishin Paint in the third race at Will Rogers Downs, breaking from the inside post position in a 350-yard Futurity for 2-year-old Paints and Appaloosas.  The horse broke a bit awkwardly, but Chavez was able to straighten him out and resume. Less than 100 yards in, Fishin Paint took a sudden, sharp left turn and crashed into the inside rail, dislodging Chavez. The 42-year-old jockey was airlifted to Tulsa's St. John Medical Center, and Will Rogers officials made the decision to cancel the rest of a 12-race card. Fishin Paint did not finish the race, but walked off the track under his own power. RAY ENLOW According to long-time employer Ray Enlow, the owner and trainer of Fishin Paint, Chavez suffered severe brain trauma resulting in irreversible brain damage as well as a broken neck.  Chavez was kept on life support for a few hours, but the machine was the only thing sustaining his life functions. Family members made the difficult decision to switch off the machine, and Chavez passed away peacefully surrounded by family. “He came to us at 16 years old knowing absolutely nothing about horses, but hoping for a job,” said Ray Enlow's daughter Janell. “He didn't know anything, but was willing to work. He started out cleaning stalls and cutting the grass, and just quickly grew accustomed."  RACING BUSINESS Chavez has worked with Enlow for 26 years, helping grow the racing business from a fairly small operation to over 40 Paints and Quarter Horses in training. Enlow also developed a farm in Oklahoma where he and Chavez bred, broke and trained most of their own stock. “My father became solely dependent on Mario for everything,” Janell Enlow continued. “Nobody broke any of the babies except for Mario, nobody galloped any of the horses other than Mario, and nobody rode the horses in their races other than Mario. He will be greatly missed.” Chavez leaves behind a wife of 23 years, a son and two daughters. His son is also involved in the racing industry. 
 