Without apology, it’s time to revisit US President Donald Trump. After all, he has turned his baby-like-spout mouth into a gargantuan megaphone. Trump matters by laws of his country. It’s rich, powerful, and like many countries home to people with heads of gold, feet of clay and precious metals in between. This time, it’s worth looking at his stupid feud with football players. By the way, what Americans call football is something like adulterated rugby: armour protected persons ramming into each other la lar buffaloes after a night pulvalising a sugarcane plantation. The “buffaloes” are members of the National Football League. Now, most sports in any country are popular—look at pot-bellied persons exhausting lungs and vocal cords cheering their favourite “buffalo,” especially in the US. PATRIOTISM For myriad reasons, not necessary to go into here, patriotism and pieces of cloth with writings proclaiming all manners of national piety, greatness—ad infinitum, have been thrown into what on a personal level should be: You defeated me; happy to see you; and pats on shoulders. Sports winners become rich and famous. That’s a platform. Like their counterparts in any human endeavour, the use the platform to advance their cause, sometimes rightly, sometimes wrongly. It happens African-American football players—and honourable white colleagues—in the US are using the platform to protest inequalities and prejudice not just at themselves, but minorities.  Remember, to some white US citizens, racism is as American as the apple pie. At every major league game, some footballers last year began bending at least one knee while the national anthem, the Star Spangled Banner, echoes. The song strains vocal colds. After ears have survived, it’s a war warmongering clarion. To the best knowledge of this writer, the song was composed by a survivor, or someone with knowledge of, a bombardment by the British of some “terrorists” in His Majesty’s reign in what became the United States of America. BOMBARDMENT All left after the bombardment were the dead, misery survivors and a spangled piece of cloth. To one Francis Scott Keys the spangled cloth was a sign of HOPE; a hope for the possibility, not necessarily actuality, of being able to say NO to any unreasonable order from any authority: parental, social, political or religious--ad infinitum. So, Trump & Company need stop yelling at those who are kneeling while the national anthem bellows over mountains, valleys and wherever. After all, standing stiff is mostly arrogance; kneeling, humility. All the kneelers are saying to the flag and war mongering lyric—symbols of the nation—is: Now that a smorgasbord of humanity has stitched you up and refined the tune, give all a fair deal. The Star-Spangled Banner became the US official national anthem in 1931. Football players weren’t required to be in the stadium until 2009. Does that mean in the midst US citizens were unpatriotic?  cmbitiru@hotmail.com  