A man was shot dead on Friday morning in Bungoma town during a confrontation between rioting youths and police. The deceased, only identified as Barasa, had multiple gunshots on his chest and stomach and died instantly. COMMANDER Witnesses said the man was shot at Muteremuko estate in the town during running battles as police officers dispersed the group that had blocked Bungoma-Mumias road. The killing brings to six, number of people killed in repeat presidential election chaos that rocked parts of former Nyanza, Western and Eastern provinces. Kenya police are on the spot over rising brutality against demonstrators, with more than 40 people dead in the aftermath of the country General Election held on August 8. Bungoma County Police Commander Charles Munyoli said he had not received any information on the killing. "So far I’m yet to receive any information from my officers on the ground but once I get it I will brief the media," he said. He stated that a number of youths had been arrested and would be arraigned in court after investigations are complete. The protesters, mostly Nasa supporters, burnt tyres along the road as they demonstrated against Thursday repeat presidential election. TENSION They engaged in a cat and mouse game along road for the better part of Friday morning. The rioting extended from Thursday evening when rowdy youths tried to attack polling clerks at Mupeli Primary polling centre in the town but were repulsed by heavily armed police officers. The youths were calling for reforms at IEBC before the repeat presidential election. Tension was still very high in Bungoma town by Friday 1pm, with transport paralysed and businesses closed. In Homa Bay, a man who was injured during anti-election demos has succumbed to his injuries. 3 OTHERS Three others are in critical condition following Thursday’s clash between police and Nasa supporters. Wycliffe Odhiambo, 30, succumbed to injuries a few hours after he fell from a moving motorbike, officials from Homa Bay Hospital said. “He was bleeding on the chest when he was brought to the hospital,” Homa Bay County Teaching and Referral Hospital Chief Executive Officer Meshack Liru said on Friday. Dr Liru said three gunshot victims are admitted at the facility. BULLET He added that one of the patients is in the intensive care unit. Titus Owuor, 17, was shot in the chest in Sindo town and is expected to undergo a surgery to remove a bullet lodged in his body. “His condition is improving though he is still weak. Doctors will keep a close eye on him all the time. At the moment, he is under the life supporting machine,” said Dr Liru. He added that the other two victims— Alex Aron, 25, and William Ochola, 23— would be discharged soon.   Seven people admitted to hospital in Kisumu with gunshot wounds.