Kenya is tipped to win the 2017 African Rally Championship (ARC) title for the third year running with Manvir Baryan heading for the final round of the series in Zambia next weekend with a slight advantage.  With both Baryan and Leroy Gomes of Zambia going into the final round as the chief championship contenders, International Automobile Federation (FIA) rules will favour the Kenyan driver in case of a tie at the end of the rally. Baryan has 90 points with three outright victories in the ARC series while Gomes follows in second place with 65 points although without victory so far. Victory earns the winner 25 points and Baryan will have followed the FIA rules on his participation once he starts the rally in Zambia regardless of what happens after that.  Baryan will have tackled rallies in both the South and North Regions. “My car carrier and part of the mechanics will leave by road while rest of us will fly out on Tuesday (yesterday) to Lusaka in readiness for the big event," said Baryan told Nation Sport.  The ARC is divided into two regions — the “North Region” with rallies in Cote d’Ivoire, Kenya, Uganda and Rwanda and the “South Region” which has competitions in Tanzania, Zambia, South Africa and Madagascar. Kenyan driver Jasi Chatthe won the ARC title in 2015 while compatriot Don Smith followed up with another victory in 2016. The battle for the Navigators Championship is more intense than their drivers’ contest with Urshlla Latife Gomes, from Zambia, who navigates her husband, Leroy Gomes, needs nothing less than a victory in her home round to snatch the co-drivers crown from Kenya’s Drew Sturrock. Sturrock, who navigates Baryan, leads the table with 90 points while Urshlla is in the second place with 68. Sturrock has to win the Zambia Rally to take the title or wish Urshlla does not finish in the top position. “Drew is sitting on 90 points and I have 68. Both Manvir and Drew need to finish top to win the championship. I and my driver have to finish first and expect Manvir to fall out of the rally in order for me to win championship,” Urshlla told Nation Sport from Zambia. 
 