It is that season for the annual captains and chairmen’s prize events as the year 2017 approaches its end. And to kick off what is likely to be a busy time for Kenyan golfers before and after the Christmas and New year holidays, will be the Lady Captain’s prize at the now giant Vet Lab Sports Club whose par 72 course will be hosting over 300 golfers today and tomorrow. Though her term of office comes to an end when the election of a new lady captain takes place, this will probably by Lady Captain Mary Karano’s last major event that she will be hosting. The two-day event has attracted a galaxy of sponsors including Madison Insurance, UAP, Super Golf, KenGen, MTN and friends of the lady captain for today’s first round.  Those supporting the second round and basically the main event tomorrow will be Kenya Power as the main sponsor while others will are Kenya Breweries, Brookside Dairy, Heritage Hotels. Breweries will provide drinks while Brookside will give some products to the caddies as well as players. Heritage Hotels like many other hotels and lodges such as Panari Nyahururu, Lerruat Resort in Enashipai will be giving out accommodation vouchers for winners of various categories. Other sponsors who have helped spice up the event are Media Max Advertising Agency, and AIG Insurance. “I am very excited with all the sponsorship. I can assure golfers that they will be in for a thrilling weekend," said Karano, a former Kenya ladies champion, who took over the lady captain’s roll late last year. Karano and other leading lady golfers such as Aganes Nyakio, Aisha Duba, Florence will be in action. Among the men drawn include some of the club’s leading amateurs such as Robinson Owiti, and Edwin Mudanyi. Because of the large field, both first and second rounds are set for 6am.  Away in Thika, the par 72 will host one of the many DStv Explore Golf series which have so far been held in clubs like Railway, Sigona, Golf Park, Kiambu, Vet Lab, Limuru, Eldoret and Mombasa. Over 200 players are drawn to battle it out for an array of prizes being offered by MultiChoice Kenya.  
  
“I have been training really hard to perfect some aspects of my long and short game,” said Kiragu.