Boniface Muchiri came off the bench to give SportPesa Premier League defending champions Tusker a 1-0 win over cash-strapped Nakumatt at Ruaraka grounds on Wednesday. Muchiri had replaced Noah Wafula in the 67th minute and only took nine minutes to strike the all-important goal with a beautiful volley from outside area after David Naftali failed to make a clearance. The 11-time champions moved to third on 46 points, while Nakumatt are 12th after 29 rounds. "They executed what we had done in training in all departments. We knew Muchiri's strength as a substitute that's why we started him on the bench. We've tough matches remaining but we take a game at a time," Tusker assistant coach Francis Baraza, standing in for head coach George Nsimbe who is suspended by the club, said after the match. CONCENTRATION LAPSE Nakumatt coach Anthony Mwangi said a concentration lapse cost them the match. “Fatigue played a big role considering we just came from Kisumu the other day. The boys lost momentum in the last quarter. We are still within our target despite facing a few challenges within the team," said Mwangi. Nakumatt, buoyed by a 2-1 win away to Kakamega Homeboyz over the weekend, had the league’s top scorer Kepha Aswani and Boniface Akenga leading the attack. Former Tusker man Donald Mosoti partnered Kennedy Onyango at the back. Baraza on the other hand made two changes to the team that walloped Muhoroni Youth 4-0 on Sunday. Allan Wanga replaced injured Mike Khamati while Martin Kizza started in place of Collins Shivachi who is in Ethiopia for trials. WANGA, MIENO MISS The brewers, who had created a few chances in the opening minutes, were forced into an early substitution after Jackson Macharia was stretchered off with a suspected concussion after colliding with Kevin Omondi. Cersidy Lumumba came in for Macharia in the 19th minute. Five minutes later, Wanga headed off the mark Humphrey Mieno’s cross from the left. Mieno also missed a similar opportunity to beat Ezekiel Owade in Nakumatt goal after failing to connect to Danson Kago's inswinger from the left. Nakumatt introduced Clinton Kisiavuki for jaded Joshua Oyoo as Baraza brought on Stephen Owusu for Kago in the 73rd minute. Peter Nzuki was denied an equaliser by Duncan Ochieng' in the 81st minute, the veteran goalie palming out the Nakumatt captain's ferocious drive. Muchiri then fired wide under pressure from Nicholas Meja with an empty net after some good work by Wanga on the right. Tusker next visit Nzoia Sugar while Nakumatt host Bandari on Sunday.  