Hi, I have been in a relationship with a man who broke up with his wife two years ago. After we had dated for two months, she announced that she was back, just because she had his child. Yet she had left the man saying all she wanted was a child with him. Besides, her parents kept threatening him to leave their daughter alone. I’m in a difficult situation because we love each other very much and are not ready to break up. At the moment this woman is at the man’s mother’s home. His mother, as well as his brothers and sisters, are all in favour of her coming back, yet the man doesn’t love her anymore. It got to a point where his mother told him never to take another woman to her home because they recognise only the one with his child. I don’t whether to continue with the relationship or to leave him.  Hi, Dating a person who has been through a relationship break-up requires both skill and wisdom to navigate in order to make prudent choices. It has been only two years since this man’s woman walked out on him. I believe that people who have been through a break-up need time to heal and deal with the issues the caused the break-up, otherwise any new relationships the enter into will be affected by that past. What I sense here is that all you know now is the version of the story t this man has told you. I am not really sure what to say about that since I don’t know what kind of relationship they had and what commitments they made. However, if indeed, his parents don’t want you to marry their son and have allowed the other woman to live in their home, then your man has some questions to answer. What does he know that you don’t know? Is there something he is hiding? I don’t believe that parents can force a wife on someone. This man has a responsibility to sort out his mess before claiming to be free. There is really nothing you can do to help him deal with his mess. He can meet his parents and state his case. What you should not do is to get caught in the middle of their mess. I suggest that you think carefully through this and act quickly to avoid getting entangled any further.  