My hearts thudded, threatening to burst out of my chest as I gasped for air. I felt to a hot burning sensation shoot from my calves to the back muscles of my thighs. My nostrils flared open as small streams of salty sweat flowed down my face. My t-shirt that was dripping with perspiration clung to my body much like glue on paper. I could see the finish point now. A burst of new energy surged through my body as I sprinted towards the end. I had finished my two and a half kilometre morning run. After resting for five minutes, I did 150 jumps with the skipping road followed by three sets of 20 push-ups. My morning workout done, I waited for the evening aerobics session. INTENSE ROUTINE I followed this intense workout routine for about two months before throwing in the towel. The first week had been very exciting. Then the aches kicked in. I knew I was pushing it too far. I worked out six days a week, twice a day. There were countless days I woke up and groaned at the thought of going out for a run. It felt burdensome. On my third month I started skipping some days until eventually I stopped working out altogether. I hated exercising. I was tired of the pain, the aches and monotony the entire routine. You see, I had bit more than I could chew. I had not given my body enough time to transition smoothly from my previous sedentary way of life that revolved around watching movies all day to an active lifestyle that included a lot of outdoor activity. Therefore my body revolted, causing my limbs to burn. Muscles whose existence I was not aware of until that moment ached all night long. I did not know it then but my work out routine was simply not sustainable. It had become torturous and so I quit for close to two months. I bumped onto Tiffany Rothe’s towel workouts on YouTube by mere chance while chilling in my room on a lazy Sunday afternoon. I did the 15-minute workouts, thoroughly enjoying the beat of her routine soundtrack. I was surprised at the end of the session to realise that I was sweating profusely. What had felt like dancing turned out to be excellent work out. I was back to exercising but now with Tiffany from YouTube. Later on, I subscribed to more workout channels on YouTube that were 30min max with great music to move along to. I would do a video a day and in three weeks, I was starting to see and feel the difference. Presently, I take a thirty minute brisk work to work every morning. In the evenings, I do one set of 10 leg-raises, 10 push-ups and 10 sit-ups. The walk helps me clear my head, the cardio helps me relax my muscles and sleep better. I learnt that exercise is not a one-off affair when pursuing fitness. It is for life hence it cannot afford to be unpleasant. Find a routine that works for you, get the right gear and enjoy strengthening, build-up and toning one muscle at a time.    *** Fit&Fab is a blog series by Marion Maina who lost 30kg in her weight loss journey that started two years ago and is now in pursuit of a healthy lifestyle. Do you have feedback on this story? E-mail: lifeandstyle@ke.nationmedia.com    
  
I could read his concern as he contemplated asking if I was okay.