Nasa co-principal Moses Wetang’ula has said the opposition will only take part in the repeat elections if its demands on staff changes in the electoral commission are met. Mr Wetang’ula said Nasa will participate in the repeat election once there is a fair playing ground after the current electoral officials are kicked out. “We will not boycott the repeat presidential elections but what we want is that the IEBC officials who oversaw the bungled August 8 polls be kicked out and new ones picked to oversee the October 26 polls,” he said. READ: Nasa’s election moves cast doubts over repeat poll READ: Nasa to increase anti-IEBC demos READ: Chebukati excludes Chiloba in new poll team Speaking on Saturday during the burial of Ms Loise Nakhungu, the mother of Kibabii University Vice-Chancellor  Odeo Ipara in Naitiri, Tongaren, Mr Wetang’ula said  the opposition will continue with its protests until the reforms at the polls agency are executed. “We want a new team that will be neutral in the repeat elections, we can’t accept the tainted referee who favoured Jubilee leaders, to officiate the next game. We need commissioners and returning officers who can’t be manipulated,” he said. REFORMS Meanwhile,  Nasa presidential candidate Raila Odinga on Saturday reiterated that the journey to ‘Canaan’ was unstoppable.  Mr Odinga said the opposition will continue to push for the reforms in the electoral commission to ensure free, fair and credible elections. “We are determined to continue with our push for electoral reforms to ensure a level playing field for a free, fair and credible election. With these, we must reach Canaan,” said Mr Odinga. He was addressing an interdenominational prayer meeting on phone, which was attended by US-based preacher Bernard Kibirige at St Stephen’s ACK Church in Kisumu.  Mr Odinga, who was expected to attend the meeting, conveyed his apology, saying he had encountered other engagements elsewhere.  He also appealed to the clergy to pray for peaceful demonstrations across the country. “As we push for electoral reforms through street protests, we ask the church to pray for peace and unity,” said Mr Odinga.    Additional reporting by Justus Ochieng and Irene Sinoya 
 