Police in Kisumu have arrested two suspects in connection with the vandalism and looting of Tumaini supermarket during Friday’s protests against the electoral agency.  County police commander Titus Yoma told Nation that the suspects will be arraigned on Monday. "We have already arrested two people in connection to the looting at the supermarket and [we are] continuing with investigations to nab all the culprits," Mr Yoma said. The protestors broke into the supermarket, ate food and took off with some goods. "They also attacked some staff while one of the suspects was also injured in the process," he said. PROSECUTE Kisumu Deputy Governor Mathews Owili chastised the perpetrators. "We have a clear agenda as Nasa through the street protests. We are showing our dissatisfaction with IEBC as presently constituted and [I] want to ask the police to protect businesses for they employ our people," Dr Owili said. He went on: "We should not destroy our property. If you love him (Raila), don’t burn roads and destroy property." Dr Owili told the police to conduct thorough investigations so that the perpetrators can be prosecuted. DEMOS The protestors in Kisumu had also vandalized a water hydrant on Oginga Odinga street. They said they were affected by the scorching sun and wanted to "cool our bodies as we protest".  The National Super Alliance has intensified its protests, which will now be held on Monday, Wednesday and Friday.  IEBCIn a letter to Nairobi police commander Japhet Koome, Nasa chief executive officer Norman Magaya said that they will hold peaceful demonstrations to push for the resignation of Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission officials accused of bungling the August 8 elections.  "This demonstration will also serve to demand the withdrawal of the 2017 Election Laws (Amendment) Bill being endorsed by Jubilee Party." Mr Magaya told police to provide security for leaders and supporters during the protests. 
  
On Friday, Tumaini supermarket was broken into and goods stolen.