Chief of Defence Forces Samson Mwathethe has asked politicians to desist from divisive talks ahead of the presidential election on Thursday. Addressing mourners during the burial of Murang'a Deputy OCPD Madaraka Mung’aro in Dabaso, Kilifi County, on Saturday, he warned that the current political situation could easily tear the country apart. "The country is going through political turmoil and our politicians should talk of unity and bonding other than engaging in talks that will divide us. "They should understand that their freedom of expression should not be misused because any ill talk can land the country in political instability," he said. SECESSION He said Kenya should not be turned into a war zone like Iraq. Similarly, Mining Cabinet Secretary Dan Kazungu told Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi and Kilifi North MP Owen Baya to unite locals and snuff out secession talk. "I want to tell the governor that he has the resources and ability to bring people together and not dividing them with their talks of secession. "The same to my brother Owen, he should be using his energy to bring the people of Kilifi North together and not issuing threats of division. That is not warranted from a leader," he said. UNITY Kilifi Administration Police commandant Elisha Ngetich said police are closely monitoring the utterances by Kilifi politicians. "Politicians should separate politics and development. This nation needs the bonding but not division among Kenyans," he said. Coast police boss Larry Kieng also urged leaders to propagate messages that advocate for peace. "Bad politics leads to insecurity and I want to tell our politicians that we have been peaceful in this region and the trend should continue. "They should weigh their words because once they go out of context, we shall act as we need this country to remain peaceful," Mr Kieng said. COAST On Friday, Kilifi North MP Owen Baya hinted at introducing a bill in the National Assembly to start pushing for secession of Coast region. He spoke at Mwarakaya where he accompanied Mr Kingi for their anti-election campaigns.   Minister threatened to unleash criminals on Nasa demonstrators.